Probate and Succession planning
Frameworks (references here are to syllabus)	4
Deceased passed away	4
Testator who want to draft a will but may lack capacity	4
Creation of LPA or deputyship to care for future loss of mental capacity	5
A.	Inheritance	6
*A1: Wills	6
Types of wills	6
*Who can make a will	7
*Will formalities	9
*Duties and liabilities of solicitors	13
*Executors	14
*Properties that cannot be disposed of by a grant	15
*Construction of wills	18
*Preparing a will	21
*Avoiding a partial intestacy	22
*Post-execution of will	23
*A2: Intestacy (Intestate Succession Act)	25
Scope of application of the SIA	25
Properties that cannot be disposed of by a grant (See above)	25
Rules of distribution (ISA s 7) (refer to table):	25
Issues of illegitimate, adopted, foster children and step-children	27
“Half blood” and “whole blood” family members	27
*A3: Other issues relating to estates	28
A3(i): Inheritance (Family Provision) Act 1966 (IFPA)	28
A3(ii): Maintenance of Parents Act 1995 (MPA)	34
A3(iii): Comparison between dying testate and dying intestate	36
*A4: Probate and Administration	43
Obtaining a grant of representation	43
When can personal representatives commence acting for the deceased’s estate?	44
Responsibility of executors (in probate) and administrators (in LA or LA with will annexed)	44
Non-contentious applications	44
Contentious Applications	48
B.	Care for loss of mental capacity	54
*B1: Mental Capacity Act (MCA): Ascertaining capacity	54
Principles on capacity (s 3 MCA)	54
Test for capacity under s 4(1)	54
*B2: Mental Capacity Act: Acts and Decisions covered by the MCA	56
Acts in connection with care or treatment (s 7 MCA)	58
Decisions excluded from being authorized by MCA	60
General powers of the Court (ss 19, 20-23)	61
*B3: Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA)	62
*Creation of LPA	62
*Powers of donees and restrictions	73
*Power of the Court in relation to validity and operation of LPAs	74
*B4: Deputyship	77
*Requirements of deputies	77
*Powers of Deputies: court may confer on deputy such powers or duties in s 22 and 23, subject to s 25 restrictions (s 20(5) MCA)	79
*Application to court procedure	82
Other points about application	85
C.	Trusts and family offices (Non-examinable)	93
Trust as a Succession Planning Tool	93
Trust Structure	93
Objectives of trust	94
Validity of trusts	95
Personal representatives’ powers and duties	96
Trustee’s duties and powers	96
Family Offices	98
Main purpose: provide investing services	98
Definition of a family office	98
Capital markets services licensing exemption for SFOs	99
Tax exemptions for family offices	99
Global Investment Programme	100
Family Governance	100



Frameworks (references here are to syllabus)
Deceased passed away
Practical steps upon testator’s passing (§E2): locate will, if made
Check if there is a will
If there is a will: locate the will (search belongings, check with previous solicitors, check registry of wills, advertise in Law Society Gazette and/or newspapers)
If no will:  prepare to apply for grant of letters of administration 
Application for Grant (§E4)
Where there is a will and executor
Where there is no will (§C and §E4)
Where there is already a Grant
Properties that cannot be disposed of by a grant (§B6)
DB flat (§B6(c)(ii))
Insurance policies (§B6(g))
CPF monies (§B6(e)(i))
Joint accounts (§B6(d))
Administration and Discharge
Testator who want to draft a will but may lack capacity 
Testamentary capacity (§B4, §F2); (Chee Mu Lim Muriel, George Abraham)
Taking instructions (§B8)
From testator/ beneficiary?
Certification of mental capacity
Thorough discussion with testator
Presence of other persons
Drafting a will (§B7)
Understanding instructions
Revocation
Use of precedents
Dispositions
Specific gifts (ademption / abatement)
General gift
Class gift 
Testamentary trust
Execution of the will (§B3)
Formalities
Execution
Witnesses
Explanation of Will (Chee Mu Lin Muriel)
Translation
Explanation line by line
Ask appropriate questions to test mental capacity
Post-execution of the will (§B10)
Wills Registry
Safekeeping
Advice as to event of death
Conflicts of interest and professional negligence (§B9)
Professional negligence (§B9(b)): High degree of specificity and details for attendance notes (Low Ah Cheow)
Low Ah Cheow v Ng Hock Guan [2009] 3 SLR (R) 1079
Chee Mu Lin Muriel v Chee Ka Lin Caroline [2010] 4 SLR 373
Cheo Yeoh & Associates LLC v AEL [2015] 4 SLR 325
Risk of conflict of interest (§B9(a))
Rule 25 Legal Profession (Professional Conduct) Rules 2015 – significant gift to immediate family member of partner, director, consultant or employee of law practice
Law Society of Singapore v Lee Suet Fern [2020] SGDT 1
Creation of LPA or deputyship to care for future loss of mental capacity
Capacity under MCA (§F2)
Powers in general under MCA
S 3 – principles
S 6 – “best interest”/ code of practice
S 26 – Excluded Decisions
Lasting Power of Attorney (§F4)
Procedure
Form 1/ Form 2
Suitability of Donee
Consider – safeguards against Donees?
Powers / restriction on powers (See s 13)
Duties and responsibilities of Certificate Issuer
MCR Regulation 7
Law Society of Singapore v Sum Chong Mun and Kay Swee Tuan [2016] SGDT 5
Deputyship (§F5)
Powers / restriction on powers (See s 25)
Procedure
Need for leave?
“Relevant persons”?
Medical report
Drafting of prayers
A. Inheritance
*A1: Wills
When you draft a will for a client, make sure:
* You know what the client wants to do
* That what the client wants can be done
* That the client knows what he wants to do
* That you write for the client in the will says what the client wants to do
* That if there is a timeline for the will to be prepared and executed, that it is done on time

What is a will?
A will is a declaration in writing, made in accordance with the formalities required by Statute, of the intention of the person making it with regard to matters which he/she wishes to take effect upon or after his/her death. (Section 23 Forms & Precedents (4th Edition), 495)

Types of wills
1. Nuncupative wills: verbal testaments depending only upon oral evidence, being declared by the testator in extremis before a sufficient number of witnesses and afterwards reduced to writing (Tan Pwee Eng, [13]): invalid (s 6(1) WA)
o Exception: “any soldier being in actual military service, or any mariner or seaman being at sea, may dispose of his personal estate as he might have done before the making of this Act and may do so even though under the age of 21 years” (WA s 27(1))

2. *Mutual wills: 2 separate wills made by 2 people pursuant to an agreement not to revoke one’s will without the other’s consent --> e.g. couples 
o To prove mutual will: 
(a) A prior agreement by the testators to make mutual wills, intending their agreement to become irrevocable upon the first person’s death, and 
(b) The making of the mutual will (Hiroto, [14])
o The fact that the wills were executed at the same time and have the same terms is relevant but not conclusive. (Hiroto, [15])
o The agreement can be oral or in writing, be incorporated in the will, or proved by extraneous evidence. (Hiroto, [15])
o A common intention, expectation or desire (e.g. corresponding or mirror wills) will not suffice. (Hiroto, [15]) --> i.e. an intention alone is not sufficient
o Effect: A contract is enforceable, but a will can always be revoked. The solution is that the will can always be revoked, but this gives rise to an action for breach of contract. Furthermore, on the first persons’ death, a trust arises in favour of the beneficiaries, and if the survivor revokes his will, this gives rise to proceedings for breach of trust (Hiroto, [8])
o A valid mutual will cannot be revoked or changed, even if a new single will is subsequently made later on. The earlier mutual will takes precedence over the new single will which goes against the terms of the mutual will (VTL v VTM)

3. *Joint wills: Singly will jointly executed by 2 or more persons, combining their last Will and Testament, with the surviving party inheriting the entire estate when the other party passes away

*Who can make a will
* Testator (person making the will) must:
a. Be at least 21 years of age (s 4 WA); unless soldiers in actual service and mariners at sea (s 27(1) WA), and
b. Be of sound mind (i.e. have testamentary capacity).

NB: Mohamed Ismail Bin Ibrahim v Mohd Taha Bin Ibrahim [2004] 4 SLR(R) 756:
A principal restriction in Muslim law, as had been declared in all the authoritative works and treatises, and referred to in s 114 AMLA, was that a testator was not entitled to dispose of more than one-third of the property belonging to him at the time of death, and that the residue of his property must descend in fixed proportions to his legal heirs unless consent was given by all legal heirs to any deviation from the rule. 
--> i.e. the two-thirds rule where 2/3 of T’s assets must be reserved for his beneficiaries under Faraid, so he is only free to dispose of the remaining 1/3 freely

Testamentary capacity
Note: Common law principles apply, but meaning of capacity under Mental Capacity Act are “consistent” (Chee Mu Lin Muriel, [44]-[45])
--> mental capacity is the capacity to make a decision, but testamentary capacity goes beyond that and refers to the capacity to make a will

Test for testamentary capacity (Chee Mu Lin Muriel, [37] citing George Abraham, [29]):
(a) the testator understands the nature of the act and what its consequences are;
(b) he knows the extent of his property of which he is disposing;
(c) he knows who his beneficiaries are and can appreciate their claims to his property; and
(d) he is free from an abnormal state of mind (e.g., delusions) that might distort feelings or judgments relevant to making the will.

* Burden on propounder of the will to prove testamentary capacity (Chee Mu Lin Muriel, [40]) --> i.e. burden on party asserting the validity of the will

* Approach: “ultimately for the court to decide whether the testator had testamentary capacity at the relevant time on the evidence before the court, including the opinions of medical experts and non-medical testimony on the behaviour of the testator before, during or after the execution of the will.” (Chee Mu Lin Muriel, [42])
o Assessing capacity effectively under cross-examination is “not ideal”, and it would have be “much better to have [examination] by an independent medical expert” with court preferably directing the inquiry and taking a more inquisitorial role (Re BKR, [211]-[212])
o “the court must take into account P’s circumstances in assessing his mental capacity” and not rely solely on the nature of the mental impairment P suffers from (Re BKR, ([120])

* Factors
o “An indication of testamentary capacity would be the rationality of the will having regard to its terms and the identities of the beneficiaries” (Chee Mu Lin Muriel, [40])
o Proving that the terms of the will were read to or explained to the testator is “the best way to show that the testator understood the terms of the will (assuming he had testamentary capacity and his mind was not unduly influenced by some part or event)” (Lian Kok Hong, [72])
o Testamentary intention as established through evidence of the testator’s utterances when alive can support the finding of testamentary capacity of the testator (Yeo Henry, [91])

* Variations to standard to find capacity: 
o Though illness does not necessary result in loss of testamentary capacity, “the severity of the illness may influence the threshold of proof required.” (Chee Mu Lin Muriel, [41])
o complexity of the testator’s affairs and family situation, and on whether the will is a simple or complicated on (ULV v ULW)

* Effect of finding testamentary capacity: “Once testamentary capacity has been established, a rebuttable [evidential] presumption arises that the testator knew and approved of the contents of the will at the time of execution”, UNLESS: 
o there were circumstances surrounding the execution of the will which would raise a well-grounded suspicion that the will (or some provision in it) did not express the mind of the testator” (Chee Mu Lin Muriel, [46])
o Approach: “all forms of suspicious circumstances ought to be considered”, whether “contemporaneous events” or “events subsequent to the execution of the will” (Chee Mu Lin Muriel, [46]), but “must have a direct bearing on whether the testator knew and approved of the contents of the will” (Lian Kok Hong)
* E.g. “where a will was prepared by a person who takes a substantial benefit under it, or who has procured its execution, such as by suggesting the terms to the testator or instructing a solicitor to draft the will which is then executed by the testator alone” (Chee Mu Lin Muriel, [48])
* E.g. propounder of the will who would obtain a substantial benefit as the sole named beneficiary under the 1981 Will had brought the mother to meet with lawyers concerning the will on two occasions, with the mother executing two other legal documents, one of which was patently inconsistent with the 1981 Will and so no presumption of testemantary capacity could arise in UAM
* E.g. “irrationality or unusual contents of the will may go towards raising suspicious circumstances” (Chee Mu Lin Muriel, [49])
* C.f. “A parent is entitled to have favourite child(ren) and least-favoured child(ren), in accordance to his or her subjective preferences” and so can decide “to bequeath nothing to one or all of the children” which will not be suspicious to prevent the rebuttable presumption of testamentary capacity from being established in UWF v UWH, [237]

*Will formalities
A will is only valid when it complies with both FORMAL and SUBSTANTIVE requirements of making a will:
* Formal validity (s 5 Wills Act) – provides for situations where a will shall be treated as properly executed by the testator
* Will must be in writing (s 6 WA)
o Testator must sign at the foot or end of the will, or by some other person in his presence and by his direction, and the signature shall be made or acknowledged by the testator as the signature to his will or codicil in the presence of 2 or more witnesses present at the same time (s 6(2) WA)
o Position of testator signature: Deemed valid “if the signature shall be so placed at or after, or following, or under, or beside, or opposite to the end of the will, that it shall be apparent on the face of the will that the testator intended to give effect by such his signature to the writing signed as his will” (s 5(3) WA)
o Nothing ‘after’ signature is given effect: “no signature under this Act shall be operative to give effect to any disposition or direction which is underneath or which follows it, nor shall it give effect to any disposition or direction inserted after the signature shall be made.” (s 5(4) WA)

**Witnesses
* Executed in the presence of 2 or more witnesses at the same time and those witnesses shall subscribe the will in the presence of the testator (s 6(2) WA)
o Witnesses must sign the will in the testator’s presence
o Witness CANNOT be a minor, must be at least 21 years’ old
o The beneficiaries, or spouse of a beneficiary CANNOT be witness(es) to the will (s 10 WA)
o Witness CANNOT be incompetent to be admitted a witness at the time of the execution or any time afterwards (s 9 WA) --> just because a witness is incompetent or becomes incompetent afterwards will NOT affect the validity of the will, as long as other requirements in s 6 WA are satisfied (e.g. 3 witnesses but 1 is a minor, then will is valid as there are 2 other competent witnesses remaining; or if there are 2 witnesses who are competent at time of execution but becomes incompetent later, the will remains valid)
o Witness CAN be creditor or creditor’s spouse (s 11 WA)
o Witness CAN be executor (s 12 WA)

Rules on formal validity
S 5(2) WA: can rely on laws of other relevant jurisdictions/countries to satisfy formality: “A will shall be treated as properly executed if its execution conformed to the internal law in force —
(a)	in the territory where it was executed;
(b)	in the territory where the testator was domiciled at the time —
(i)	when the will was executed; or
(ii)	of his death;
(c)	in the territory where the testator habitually resided at either of the times referred to in paragraph (b); or
(d)	in the state of which the testator was a national at either of the times referred to in paragraph (b).”

S 5(3) WA: “Without prejudice to subsection (2), the following shall be treated as properly executed:
(a)	a will executed on board a vessel or an aircraft of any description, if the execution of the will conformed to the internal law in force in the territory with which, having regard to its registration (if any) and other relevant circumstances, the vessel or aircraft may be taken to have been most closely connected;
(b)	a will so far as it disposes of immovable property, if its execution conformed to the internal law in force in the territory where the property was situated;
(c)	a will so far as it revokes a will which under this Act would be treated as properly executed or revokes a provision which under this Act would be treated as comprised in a properly executed will, if the execution of the later will conformed to any law by reference to which the revoked will or provision would be treated as properly executed;
(d)	a will so far as it exercises a power of appointment, if the execution of the will conformed to the law governing the essential validity of the power.”

S 5(4) WA: “A will so far as it exercises a power of appointment shall not be treated as improperly executed by reason only that its execution was not in accordance with any formal requirements contained in the instrument creating the power.
(5)  In determining for the purposes of this section whether or not the execution of a will conformed to a particular law, regard shall be had to the formal requirements of that law at the time of execution, but this shall not prevent account being taken of an alteration of law affecting wills executed at that time if the alteration enables the will to be treated as properly executed.
(6)  Where a law in force outside Singapore falls to be applied in relation to a will, any requirement of that law whereby special formalities are to be observed by testators answering a particular description, or witnesses to the execution of a will are to possess certain qualifications, shall be treated, notwithstanding any rule of that law to the contrary, as a formal requirement only.
(7)  The construction of a will shall not be altered by reason of any change in the testator’s domicile after the execution of the will.”

When does a will take effect?
* Ambulatory nature of wills: will “to speak and take effect as if it had been executed immediately before the death of the testator, unless a contrary intention shall appear by the will” (WA s 19) --> i.e. upon death of testator
o Can be changed as often as testator wants to during his lifetime, provided he has testamentary capacity to do so

*Typical clauses in a will
1. The start
a. Commencement – e.g. “This is the last will and testament of (name) (NRIC) of (address)”
o If the testator is known by another name e.g. Lee Li Chua -also known as Karen L.L. Chua – then in the commencement of the will, the other name(s) ought to be included, especially if the testator owns assets in that other name(s). 
o This is so when the Grant of Probate is issued on the will proved, it would then bear all the names of the deceased and the assets held in the other name(s) can be dealt with by the executors/trustees
b. Revocation clause – e.g. “I revoke all former wills, codicils and other testamentary dispositions made by me”
o If there is no revocation clause, wills previously made may be admitted to proof and the present will would have to be construed with the earlier will, so far as consistent, as forming the will
c. Appointment of executors and trustees
o Substitutional appointment of executor and trustee is advisable, as having only 1 named executor/trustee is risky since he may predecease the testator or choose to renounce his office
o E.g. “I appoint my grandfather Tan Ah Kow of 1 Chancery Lane to be the sole executor and trustee of my will, but if my said grandfather shall die in my lifetime or shall refuse or be unable to act as such executor and trustee, then I appoint my niece Louise Lim of 200 Lotus Avenue to be executor and trustee of my will”
d. Appointment of guardians, if applicable
o If T has a child under 21 years’ old, he can appoint testamentary guardians under the will (who need not be biologically related to the child – cf natural guardian)
o E.g. “I appoint my friend Peter Lee to be guardian of my minor children, X and Y in the event of my death, but if he predeceases me, then I hereby appoint my cousin Nicole Chee to be the substitute guardian thereof”

2. The main body
a. Specific gift clauses – gift of particular items or any asset including land and other types of immovable property, which must be described accurately
o E.g. “I give 100K free of interest to my friend Andrew Chia, provided he survives me”
o E.g. “I give my property at 12 Maple Hill to my son, Robert Tan”
b. Non-specific gift clauses – no indication of any specific items to be gifted
o E.g. “I give all my personal possessions to Lim Peck Tong”
c. Residuary gifts (gift of residue) – “catch all” provision for all property of T that has not been specifically provided for in the will
o Residuary estate is usually used to pay debts, funeral and testamentary expenses, estate taxes and legacies
o E.g. “Martin Fernandez gives S$200,000.00 free of interest to each of his 4  children. He gives all his watches to his nephew Alan Chan. Everything else he  leaves to his wife.” In this case, the gift  of money and watches  are  (specific)  non-residuary gifts and the gift of everything else is a gift of residue
o Immediate gift of residuary estate to a CLASS OF BENEFICIARIES: e.g. “Subject to the payment of my just debts, funeral and testamentary expenses and estate duty  if any, I give, devise and bequeath my movable and immovable property not hereby disposed of, to my children as are living at my death and if more than one in equal shares”
o To trustees on trust for sale, to be held for a beneficiary with provision for survivorship/gift over: e.g. “I give the residue of my estate out of which shall be paid my debts, funeral and testamentary expenses and estate duties if any, to my trustees on trust for sale with power to postpone sale without liability for loss and such estate and the property which currently represents it is referred to in this will as “my Residuary Trust Fund”. My trustees shall hold my Residuary Trust Fund for Wilson Boh but if Wilson Boh shall predecease me then to Wilson Boh’s children in equal shares.”
--> In the above example a trust is needed because minor interests (being Wilson’s children as the alternate beneficiaries/gift over beneficiaries) may arise if the primary beneficiary (Wilson) dies before the testator.

3. End of will
a. Testimonium – placed at end of will which includes the date the will is signed and executed, e.g. “In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 20th day of July 2020.”
b. Attestation – by testator, in the presence of the 2 witnesses
o General attestation clause, e.g. “Signed by the abovenamed Tan Ah Moi as her last will and testament in the presence of us both present at the same time who at her request and in the presence of each other have hereunto subscribed our names as witnesses: -“
o Where translation of the Will is required, e.g. “Signed by the above named [name of testator] in our presence and by us in his, the testator being unbale to understand English but understanding Mandarin the will was translated into Mandarin by [name of translator] who is fully conversant with Mandarin and English before execution as stated above when the testator appeared thoroughly to understand and have knowledge of the will.”

NB on details of beneficiaries and witnesses:
* The full names/NRIC numbers of beneficiaries and witnesses and their respective addresses should be set out in the Will so that it is easier to locate them in the future when necessary
* The Court may require an affidavit from a witness if it is not satisfied with the execution of the Will (refer to Rule 215 FJR)

*Solicitors’ duties and liabilities 
* “There should be no room for even the slightest doubt or the slightest possibility of mistake on a solicitor’s part, in both understanding the testator’s intention and expressing that intention in the will” (Low Ah Cheow, [72])
* “The solicitor should thoroughly discuss all possible legal issues and potential complications, and painstakingly and accurately document his discussions and instructions.” (Low Ah Cheow, [73])
* “The solicitor should also conscientiously seek to avoid being in any situation where a potential conflict of interest may appear to exist. The solicitor must be nothing less than a completely independent adviser. Exceptional restraint and care are called for, if the solicitor has a pre-existing relationship or past dealings with the beneficiary, especially if the will is prepared urgently and executed under unusual circumstances with that sole beneficiary’s active involvement” (Low Ah Cheow, [74])

* Solicitor must ensure due execution of will (Cheo Yeoh & Associates: in the case the Deceased’s solicitors helped testator draft new will, but it was witnessed by only 1 person and were held to be negligent)

* Solicitor who drafted client’s will or another solicitor from the same law practice can be appointed as the executor/trustee under that will if he is not a beneficiary/legatee under the will (Rajaratnam Kumar)

* If Registrar has doubts about due execution of will, he must (FJR r 211): 
(1) require affidavit as to due execution from any person present at will’s execution; 
(2) if (1) does not apply, accept evidence on affidavit from any person he thinks fit to “show that the signature on the will is in the handwriting of the deceased, or of any other matter which may raise a presumption in favour of the execution of the will”

* If Registrar wants to satisfy himself as to: 
(1) execution of will by blind/illiterate testator 
(2) terms, conditions and date of execution of will 
(3) attempted revocation of will, 
he can require affidavit from any person (FJR r 215)

**Executors
Who can be an executor
* Any adult, including beneficiaries of a will CAN be an executor --> while any number can be named, probate can only be granted to a maximum of 4 persons (s 6 PAA)
NB: a donee of a LPA of P/testator can be an executor

* Infants (below 21 years old) CANNOT be granted probate or letters of administration to act as executor until reaching age of majority (s 21(1) PAA)
* Lunatics CANNOT be granted probate or letters of administration to act as executor (s 22 PAA)
* Undischarged bankrupts CANNOT be executors or administrators (s 400 IRDA) – due to lack of financial prudence. Can apply to court but will only be granted in very exceptional circumstances – but executor is more likely to gain leave of court since he was explicitly indicated by testator in the will

On failure of executors:
* Where there is no executor who can or does appear and extract probate, letters of administration with the will annexed may be granted to such person(s) the court considers the fittest (s 13(1) PAA)

Prior right to a grant under (1) ranks in the following order (s 13(2) PAA):
(a)	a universal or residuary legatee; --> beneficiary of residue of estate
(b)	a legal personal representative of a deceased universal or residuary legatee;
(c)	such person or persons, being beneficiaries under the will, as would have been entitled to a grant of letters of administration if the deceased had died intestate;
(d)	a legatee having a beneficial interest;
(e)	a creditor of the deceased.

* Letters of administration with will annexed may be granted to attorney of absent executor (s 14 PAA)
* If letters of administration granted under s 13 is absent from Singapore, it may be granted to his duly authorised attorney (s 15 PAA)
* Letter of administration that has expired under a limited grant shall be re-granted if some part of the deceased’s estate is still unadministered (s 27 PAA)

**Properties that cannot be disposed of by a grant
1. Joint tenancies of immovable property: a will CANNOT sever joint tenancy (s 35(1) CLPA)
Right of survivorship for joint tenancies (Shafeeg) – however, the ultimate survivor CAN dispose of jointly held assets in a will (Lau Siew Kim v Yeo Guan Chye)

a. Joint tenancy must be severed by:
- deed (for unregistered land) (CLPA s 66A) or 
- instrument of declaration in approved form (for registered land) (LTA s 53(5)) and
- serving copy on other joint tenants 
b. Argue for equitable tenancy in common (i.e. that there was severance) due to resulting trust or constructive trust

* Presumption of Resulting trust: “where a transfer of property to another takes place for which the recipient does not provide the whole of the consideration” (Chan Yuen Lan, [47]) (Equitable interest =/= Legal interest) 
o Scenarios: Unequal contribution to purchase price (Lau Siew Kim); non-owners pay for owner’s acquisition of legal interests (Chan Yuen Lan); Subsequent financing payments cannot alter beneficial interest in the Resulting Trust, unless parties have made the agreement at the time of the purchase (V Nithia, [67] affirming Lau Siew Kim) 
o C.f. “All of the contributions to the purchase price which the plaintiff claims to have made came after the purchase” but “the plaintiff and Sivapakiam reached no agreement at the time the property was purchased that the plaintiff was to be treated as the “ultimate source of funds” so no resulting trust in V Nithia, [71]-[72]

* Presumption of RT can be rebutted: Actual intention to benefit the recipient of the property (Chan Yuen Lan, [38])

* Presumption can be rebutted: Constructive trust: “common intention as to the basis on which the beneficial interests are to be held and there is detrimental reliance, a common intention constructive trust arises” (V Nithia, [91], affirming Chan Yuen Lan, [97])
o C.f. “Sivapakiam and the plaintiff had a common intention about a future interest in the proceeds of sale of the property”, but “Sivapakiam failed to give effect to her intention during her lifetime (for example, by selling the house and distributing the proceeds of sale herself or by making provision for it in her will)” so there is no common intention that plaintiff should have a “present beneficial interest in the property” in V Nithia, [94]-[95]
o C.f. “the court is ultimately concerned with identifying whether the parties shared a common intention as to the beneficial interest in the property” to create a common intention constructive trust which do not depend on direct financial contributions to the purchase price of the property in Ong Chai Soon, [34]

* Presumption of advancement can rebut presumption of resulting trust: “where there is a pre-existing relationship between the parties which falls into one of the established categories of relationships” (Lau Siew Kim, [107]), or any other relationship which “should be assessed in accordance with contemporary norms (Lau Siew Kim, [60]) (Equitable interest = Legal interest)
o Traditional categories: “joint tenants are spouses”, and “other pre-existing relationships which attract the operation of the presumption of advancement (such as parent-child relationships) …” (Lau Siew Kim, [107]
o C.f. “doubtful that the categories attracting the presumption should be extended to include cohabiting couples who are not legally married.” (Ng So Hang, [114])
o Application and Strength of presumption depends on a “holistic examination of all the facts” (Lau Siew Kim, [107])

2. Certain types of immovable property
* Landed property cannot pass by bequest to foreign person (RPA s 3(3))
o if foreign person is beneficially entitled, executor/administrator must sell within 5 years and pay proceeds to foreign person (RPA s 3(4))
o Does not apply to condominiums (s 4)
o Can apply to Minister for approval to acquire or retain residential property (s 25)

* HDB flat cannot pass by bequest without HDB’s consent (HDA s 59(1))
o No person can buy an HDB flat if he, his spouse or any authorised occupier owns another HDB flat, or has sold another HDB flat in the last 30 months (s 50(1))
o No HDB flat can be used as security or attached, and no trust can be created over an HDB flat, without HDB’s approval (s 58)

* Beneficiary of land cannot claim payment of mortgage debt out of testator’s personalty (CLA s 26)

3. Joint bank accounts: Framework of analysis same as for property set out in Lau Siew Kim (Estate of Yang Chun) (See above)
Bank documents could be strong evidence, but the joint account agreement was not determinative as these documents did not always provide accurate evidence of parties’ intent (Low Gim Siah, [52]-[53])

* Case: Actual intention to give moneys in joint account
o No presumption of advancement arose as even though Bee Bee and the defendant were to all intents and purposes living together as husband and wife for four years, nevertheless they were not legally married, but on the facts Bee Bee had intended to give the moneys in the joint account to the defendant in Lim Chen Yeow Kelvin, [123], [128]-[129]

* Cases: Presumption of advancement, unless rebutted
o E.g. “LKT had full and complete dominion over the money in the six joint accounts throughout his life … this fact is sufficient to rebut the presumption that LKT intended for LGB to have the money in the joint accounts upon his death” in Low Gim Siah, [51]; “LGB was not given the opportunity to operate the account. LKT kept all the accrued interest and retained the power to close and/or deal with Account 6 as he wished, and this was demonstrated by his opening another four joint accounts with money from Account 6. Even then, he could have closed all the accounts and retaken possession of the money in these accounts without the knowledge and consent of LGB.”
o E.g. “the father exercised full and complete dominion over the CMJ Joint Accounts in his lifetime”, “Chye Moi June also testified that she was financially independent when the father opened the CMJ Joint Accounts and remained so at all times thereafter” and “Chye Moi June herself accepted in cross-examination that the CMJ Joint Accounts belonged to the father in his lifetime” thus the presumption of advancement is rebutted and the joint accounts were under full equitable ownership of her father in Chye Seng Kai, [23]

4. Central Provident Fund monies (CPF): 
* CPF money does not form part of estate (Saniah), and no trust can be created over CPF monies (BTB, [40])
* Member must nominate beneficiaries using CPF nomination form; otherwise, it will go to Public Trustee for disposal under Intestate Succession Act (CPF Act s 25A)
* Rules as to testamentary capacity apply to CPF nominations (Leow Li Yoon, [34])
* Marriage revokes CPF nominations (CPF Act s 25(5)(a)), but only applies to genuine marital relationships which excludes marriage of convenience or sham marriages by reading down meaning of “marriage” which is not defined in CPF Act (Soon Ah See, [52], [54])

5. Insurance policy proceeds effected before 1 Sep 2009: 
* does not form part of the estate of the insured, but a trust is created in favour of the beneficiaries of the policy and only unperformed amounts form part of the estate (CLPA s 73(1)); thus cannot be disposed by will (Lim Lina)
* Trust in favour of the beneficiary will not be defeated by divorce (Dolly Eng)

6. Revocable nomination of insurance policy proceeds under Insurance Act (IA) for policies after 1 September 2009: --> TLDR: a will can deal with disposition of insurance policy proceeds
* for revocable nominations, policy monies to be made in accordance with:
(a) unrevoked nomination; else 
(b) *Will; else 
(c) Intestate Succession Act (s 133(8))

* Section 73 of Conveyancing and Law of Property Act (CLPA) – Presumed trust over proceeds created in favour of spouse and children

* Section 131, 132 and 133 of the Insurance Act (in general)
o Trust nomination and revocable nomination are not valid unless it provides for the disposition of all policy moneys under the relevant policy; 
o policy moneys from trust nomination does not form part of the estate of the policy owner and are not subject to his or her debts
o Trustees have to be >18 years old

* TRUST NOMINATION (cannot be affected by will) (s 132 IA)
o Trust nomination: Policy moneys are paid out by nomination which creates a trust of the policy moneys in favour of the nominee or nominees (IA 132(2))
o “all policy moneys subject to the trust created under subsection (2) (i.e. under trust nomination) do not form part of the estate of the policy owner” (IA s 132(4))

* REVOCABLE NOMINATION (can be affected by will): s 133 does not apply to trust nomination, unless revoked in accordance with s 132(7) into revocable nomination (s 133(1) IA)
o Policy owner who is at least 18 years’ old may nominate any person as beneficiary of the whole or any portion of death benefits and must make a nomination and indicate each nominee’s portion of death benefits as prescribed
o No nomination is valid unless it provides for the disposition of ALL death benefits
o A policy owner may revoke a nomination at any time in a manner as prescribed
o Nomination made is deemed REVOKED if after making the nomination, the policy owner makes a will in accordance with the Wills Act 1838 which provides for the disposition of all death benefits AND specifies such particulars of the relevant policy as prescribed (s 133(7)(b) IA)

* Insurance companies can pay up to S$150K without grant of probate or letters of administration (IA s 150(2))

*Construction of wills
* “overriding aim of the court in construing a will is to seek and give effect to the testamentary intention as expressed by the testator. (Foo Jee Seng, [17])
o “a presumption that effect should be given to every word of the will, and the court should not discount any part of the will if there can be some meaning that is not contrary to the express intention that could be ascribed to it” (Foo Jee Seng, [17])
o “Where a strict literal construction of the will would give rise to an effect which is clearly out of sync with the general intention of the testator as derived from the will as a whole, such a reading should give way to a more purposive interpretation.” (Foo Jee Seng, [17])
o E.g. “on a proper construction of the Will, Mdm Zhao was a mere licensee with a personal right to reside in the Goodwood Property rent-free; the Will confers no proprietary or ownership interest on her. Specifically, the legal interest in the property remains vested in the trustees of the Foundation, and, as will be discussed, the beneficial interest is suspended.” in Zhao Hui Fang, [46]
o The words “personal use during her lifetime”, “as her personal residence”, “for her use” and “the use of any one or more of her children” focus only on Mdm Zhao’s personal right to reside on the property, and are inconsistent with proprietary rights or a proprietary life interest in Zhao Hui Fang, [51]; intention is at best that the property can “be used as a family home for Mdm Zhao and their children” in Zhao Hui Fang, [54]
o Evidence from lawyer assisting in drafting and execution of the will can be highly relevant (Lau Tyng Tyng, [15])

* Admission of relevant extrinsic evidence in ascertaining testamentary intention
o If the testator’s expressed intention is ambiguous on the face of the will, then the rules of construction will apply and the court can also admit relevant admissible extrinsic evidence as an aid to construction. (Low Ah Cheow, [20])
o However, extrinsic evidence is not admissible to control, vary or alter the written will. (Low Ah Cheow, [20])

* Precatory words or expression of desire is unenforceable, e.g. “wish and strong desire” (Lau Tyng Tyng, [16])

* Construction of gifts under wills
o Construction of general gift of property: includes property over which testator has general power of appointment (WA s 21)
o Construction of gift of property: whole estate which testator had power to dispose of by will (WA s 24) – devise of real estate to trustee or executor
o Construction of gift of property without limitation: whole estate which testator had power to dispose of by will (WA s 25)
o Construction of indeterminable interest at testator’s death: Gifts to children or other issue who leave issue living at testator’s death not to lapse (WA s 26) --> see below

* Subsequent conveyance does not prevent operation of the will (WA s 18):
No conveyance or other act made or done subsequently to the execution of a will of or relating to any real or personal estate therein comprised, except an act by which the will shall be revoked as aforesaid, shall prevent the operation of the will with respect to the estate or interest in the real or personal estate as the testator shall have power to dispose of by will at the time of his death

THIS MEANS THE WILL REMAINS VALID EVEN IF AN ASSET TO BE DISTRIBUTED UNDER IT WAS DISPOSED OF (E.G. SOLD OFF BEFORE T’S DEATH). HOWEVER, THE PERSON TO HAVE RECEIVED IT WOULD JUST NO LONGER RECEIVE IT - ADEMPTION

**When beneficiaries predecease the testator
* (for a specific gift) If beneficiary dies before testator, the specific gift (e.g. car) lapses and falls into residue (WA s 20)

* (for a residue) If beneficiary dies before testator, the gift of a share in residue fails and will be distributed according to intestacy rules in ISA
o ADG v ADH: However, in drafting there can be a backup stating that “everything that forms part of the residue goes to B, but in the event B pre-deceases me, the residue goes to C” --> so the failed residue does NOT got to intestacy, but the specified backup beneficiary of the residue, i.e. C

* the words “die without issue” or “die without leaving issue”, or any other words which may import either a want or failure of issue of any person in his lifetime or at the time of his death, or an indefinite failure of his issue, shall be construed to mean a want or failure of issue in the lifetime or at the time of the death of that person, and not an indefinite failure of his issue, unless a contrary intention shall appear by the will (WA s 23(1))

* **If testator’s named child/children is/are a beneficiary, and the named child predeceases testator, gift goes to deceased child’s estate for distribution, unless a contrary intention shall appear by the will (s 26 Wills Act)
o S 26 WA does NOT apply to a class gift (Loke Soh Lui, [21]), e.g. “all my natural and lawful sons”, “my children”, “all my children including John” or excluding a named person are class gifts (Loke Soh Lui, [17], [60])
o In a class gift, the gift vis-à-vis the deceased child automatically lapses and the gift will be redistributed to the rest of the surviving children in equal shares. If T wishes for the gift to pass to the deceased child’s issue, must include an express clause in the will indicating so
o Naming each child by name is not a class gift and will be covered by s 26 (Loke Soh Lui, [17]), e.g. “to John, Paul, Jogee and Sarah” --> so s 26 WA still applies and gift will still go to estate of each child if they died before T
o S 26 also applies to T’s grandchildren and their issues as named beneficiaries (since it covers “child or other issue”)
o S 26 also covers any residuary estate named to specifically go to the named beneficiary

NB: S 26 ONLY COVERS T’S CHILDREN AND ISSUES, AND NOT THIRD PARTIES
S 26 WA: Where any person being a child or other issue of the testator to whom any real or personal estate shall be devised or bequeathed for any estate or interest not determinable at or before the death of that person shall die in the lifetime of the testator leaving issue, and any such issue of that person shall be living at the time of the death of the testator, that devise or bequest shall not lapse, but shall take effect as if the death of that person had happened immediately after the death of the testator, unless a contrary intention shall appear by the will.

* Gift-over provision: a provision by which a “substitute” beneficiary can “take over” the gift to the original beneficiary
o Gift-over provision used as “no-contest” provision: “Clauses 12 to 15 collectively provided for what was essentially a “no-contest” provision whereby the Deceased directed inter alia that the beneficiaries were not to challenge the validity of her Will and/or any gifts or transfers she had made in her lifetime.” (WDS v WDT, [7])

*Ademption: failure of gift of property, because property does not exist at testator’s death (Low Gim Har)
* The subject-matter of the gift is disposed of or destroyed, e.g. shares sold (Low Gim Har, [58a])
* It ceases to conform to its description, e.g. X company taken over by Y company, and shares in Y company issued in exchange for shares in X company (Low Gim Har, [58b])
* The nature of the gift has changed its character, e.g. if shares sold under enforceable but uncompleted agreement before testator died, when equity would deem the shares to be in the form of money. However, the court did not think this rule should be received in Singapore (Low Gim Har, [58c])

*Abatement: rateable reduction in gifts, because there are insufficient assets to go around
* If there is insufficient money to pay cash gifts, then the legacies are reduced and each beneficiary takes PARI PASSU

E.g. of ademption and abatement:
Situation 1: Will says give $200 to A and all remaining sums to B, but there is only $180 left. In this case, $180 will go to A (his share is abated), while B receives nothing (his share is adeemed since there is no remaining sum)

Situation 2: Will says give $200 to A and $100 to B, but there is only $200. In this case, both A and B will received a reduced portion of the gift via abatement.

Donatio Mortis Causa: Gifts made when alive
Elements: a person (“the Donor”):
(1) makes a gift to another (“the Donee”) in contemplation of death, 
(2) to take effect in the future and which remains conditional until the Donor dies, and 
(3) there must be delivery of the subject matter of the gift or something representing it, where the donor intends to impart dominion over the it. (Koh Cheong Heng cited in WDS v WDT)

* NOT EXCLUDED by WA s 6 as not nuncupative will (Koh Cheong Heng, [21])
o Gift made in contemplation of impending death (Koh Cheong Heng, [13a])
o Gift made on condition that it is absolute on complete only on death. Can be implied from fact that donor was ill (Koh Cheong Heng, [13b])
o Delivery of subject-matter of or something representing the gift, which donee accepts. Donor must intend to part with dominion (Koh Cheong Heng, [13c])

* Example of Donatio Mortis Causa not being made out (WDS v WDT)
o Deceased intended to gift a sum of money WDT after executing a will, but Deed not completed. 
o Despite both side agreeing on the deceased’s intention to do so there was no valid legal claim that could be made against the estate in WDS v WDT, [58]
o Obiter discussion on donation mortis causa: all 3 requirements NOT made out in this case. (1) Gift was not made in contemplation of death, (2) intended to be made when deceased was still alive, and (3) no delivery of the subject matter of the gift. 

*Preparing a will
Risk of conflict of interest
* PCR rules in general: Get informed consent from clients, advise to seek independent legal advice, remain aware of conflict of interests, protect each client’s interests
* E.g. solicitor acted for youngest son and his three siblings after head of household died, and acted on supposed instructions that the three siblings agreed to renounce their interests in the estate without concern for the risks to the three siblings’ interests in Mahidon, [114]-[115]
* E.g. Solicitor acted for family as a whole but was oblivious to the possibility of conflict of interest between the testator’s two families and failed to understand the interest of the testator’s first wife’s daughter and misled her as to the size of the residuary estate in Kuek Siang Wei, [99], [100], [104]
* E.g. Clear conflict of interest regardless of whether LKY’s last will increased, decreased or maintained LHY’s share who was the husband of the solicitor in Lee Suet Fern, [507]
* Gifts from clients (PCR r 25): lawyer 
(a) must not act for the client in relation to the gift; and 
(b) must advise the client to obtain independent legal advice in relation to the gift. (r 25(2) PCR)

Professional negligence
* Attendance notes: “necessary to compare the testimony of the solicitor who drafted the will (“the drafting solicitor”) with his attendance notes since those notes are (or at least should be) a contemporaneous record of the testator’s instructions. … This omission could persuade the court to doubt the veracity of the drafting solicitor’s testimony if a dispute arises as to the purport of the terms of the will; the court may even draw adverse inferences against the drafting solicitor.” (Low Ah Cheow, [38])
* Ask questions: “Solicitors should also ask appropriate questions to ascertain the testator’s capacity to understand the will’s contents, even simple formulaic questions like whether the testator is making a will for the first time.” (Chee Mu Lin Muriel, [60])
* Failing to ensure that there were sufficient witnesses (Cheo Yeoh & Associates)
* Failure to explain documents to clients (Mahidon)
* Attempt to fully apprehend each beneficiary’s interest, both pecuniary and any relevant non-pecuniary interest (Kuek Siang Wei, [98(a)])
* E.g. solicitors were negligent in not acting on instructions to execute the deceased’s new will re-inheriting his daughters after reconciliation following a quarrel which resulted in him executing a will disinheriting them in White v Jones

*Practical: issues to think about in preparing a will
a. Domicile of testator 
b. Testamentary capacity of the testator 
c. Declaration of testamentary intention 
d. Revocation of prior wills and codicils 
e. Appointment(s) of executor(s), trustee(s), and guardian(s) 
f. Disposition of property: legacies (specific and general) and devises, and gift-overs (Note any particular system of law which may apply to the property, e.g., immovable property in a foreign country) 
g. Residuary clauses (Ensure that there is no partial intestacy arising under the will, and what happens where there is partial intestacy – see below on the Intestate Succession Act 1967 (“ISA”)) 
h. Powers and directions to executors and trustees; implied powers of trustees in the Trustees Act 1967 (“TA”) and Section 35(1) CLPA 
i. Testimonium clause (i.e. date which will was signed)
j. Attestation clauses variations (where testator is unable to sign, or cannot understand English, or signs with a non-English language, or is blind)

Altered circumstances (s 14 WA)
- e.g. when person executing the will he was a Catholic, but when he died he was a Buddhist. The will remains unchanged and is NOT invalidated.
- e.g. when person executing the will he was married, but when he died he was divorced. Divorce is an altered circumstance but it does NOT invalidate the will
- prudent thing for client is to review their will and execute a new one when they have a material change in circumstances (e.g. birth of new child)

*Avoiding a partial intestacy
Partial intestacy can arise in 2 situations:
1. Where a will does not name executors or where all executors have predeceased the testator and the will does not name any substitute executor. In such cases, a grant of letters of administration with will annexed (instead of grant of probate) has to be applied for (s 13 PAA)

2. Where a will does not dispose of some part of the testator’s estate which is capable of passing under a will, or did not provide for a residuary clause to deal with assets not specifically disposed of (e.g. “the remainder of my estate shall go to…”)
o Assets specifically disposed will be done so according to the terms of the will, but:
o Undisposed assets will be accorded to persons who take upon the intestacy of the testator, according to intestate rules (s 10 ISA)

*Post-execution of will
Practical pointers after execution: (i) Safekeeping of wills and (ii) Wills Registry 

Rectification of error (s 28 WA):
(1)  A court may order that a will be rectified so as to carry out the testator’s intentions, if the court is satisfied that, as a consequence of either or both of the following, the will is so expressed that the will fails to carry out the testator’s intentions:
(a)	a clerical error;
(b)	a failure to understand the testator’s instructions.
(2)  Except with the permission of a court, an application for an order under subsection (1) must be made no later than 6 months after the date on which a grant authorising the administration of the testator’s estate is first made --> i.e. within 6 months of grant of probate / LA

Revocation of wills (s 15 WA): “No will or codicil, or any part thereof, shall be revoked otherwise than —
(a)	[Will revoked by marriage unless “expressed to be made in contemplation of a marriage” (WA s 13)]
(b)	by another will or codicil executed in the manner by this Act required;
(c)	by some writing declaring an intention to revoke it, and executed in the manner in which a will is by this Act required to be executed; or
(d)	by the burning, tearing, or otherwise destroying the will by the testator, or by some person in his presence and by his direction, with the intention of revoking it.”
“No will shall be revoked by any presumption of an intention on the ground of an alteration in circumstances.” (WA s 14)

Alterations to wills (s 16 WA): “obliteration, interlineation or other alteration made in any will after the execution thereof” shall only have effect if signed by testator and witnesses (except insofar as the will becomes incomprehensible)

Relevant provisions in the CLA pertaining to wills (s 23 to 27, and 30 CLA):
* Appointments to be valid notwithstanding one or more objects excluded, or only take an unsubstantial share (CLA s 23)

* Executor deemed to be trustee for person entitled to residue on intestacy (CLA s 24)

* Executor of executor represents original testator (s 25(1) CLA) --> CHAIN OF EXECUTORSHIP (benefit of testate death) – when executor dies after grant of probate but before he finishes administering estate, the executor of the deceased executor’s will (if any) can step into his shoes

* Devisee of land (person receiving property) not to claim payment of mortgage debt out of movable property (s 26(1) CLA) 
--> any existing mortgage on the property will go with the property, so any proceeds from the sale of the property will be used to pay out the outstanding mortgage. 
--> IF T wants the outstanding mortgage to be paid from any other assets so that the recipient is to receive the property free of any encumbrance, it has to be stated clearly in the will

* Bona vacantia applies “where a right to the estate of any person who dies … intestate without next?of?kin has accrued to the Government” (s 27(1) CLA)

* *Presumption of survivorship in regard to claim to property: when uncertain, younger presumed to die after the older (s 30 CLA) --> when 2 people die at the same time, older person is deemed to have died first


*A2: Intestacy (Intestate Succession Act)
Scope of application of the SIA
* Not applicable to estate of Muslims domiciled in Singapore who die intestate (s 2 ISA)

Law regulating distribution:
* For movable property, applicable law is law of country of domicile (s 4(1) ISA) --> law domicilii
* For immovable property, applicable law is Singapore ISA (s 4(2) ISA) --> law situs

Property of intestate to be distributed (s 5 ISA):
If a person dies intestate after 2 June 1967, he being at the time of his death —
(a) domiciled in Singapore and possessed beneficially of property, whether movable or immovable, or both, situated in Singapore; or 
(b) domiciled outside Singapore and possessed beneficially of immovable property situated in Singapore, 
that property or the proceeds thereof, after payment thereout of the expenses of due administration as prescribed by the Probate and Administration Act 1934, shall be distributed among the persons entitled to succeed beneficially to that property or the proceeds thereof.

Summary:
--> if person domiciled in Singapore, both his movable and immovable property in Singapore will be distributed according to s7 ISA
--> if person domiciled outside Singapore, only his immovable property in Singapore will be distributed according to s7 ISA, but his movable properties will be distributed according to the laws of his domicile instead (e.g. Malaysian intestacy laws)

* Partial intestacy: where there is a will, any parts undisposed is subject to ISA (s 10 ISA)
o The executor is deemed to be the trustee for person entitled to the residue on intestacy and should simply apply for grant of probate of the will without needing a separate letter of administration, notwithstanding the partial intestacy. (CLA s 24)

Properties that cannot be disposed of by a grant (See above)

Rules of distribution (ISA s 7) (refer to table):

SpouseDescendantsParentsEntitlementRules???/??Spouse:	50%
Descendants: 50%Rr 2, 3????/??Descendants: 100%R 3????Spouse:	50%
Parents: 50%R 4?????Parents: 100%R 5?????Spouse:	100%R 1??????Priority: 100%
1. Siblings (in equal portions) – or if sibling died, then children of sibling will take the deceased’s portion (niece/nephew)
2. Grandparents (in equal portions) (ONLY IF ALIVE)
3. Uncles and aunts (ONLY IF ALIVE)
4. GovernmentRr 6-9
No hotchpotch rule: inter vivos advancements by deceased (i.e. gifts when he was alive) to children/descendants of children must be ignored in calculating distributive share (s 9 ISA)
--> for advances to spouses, parents or siblings made during lifetime, it is unclear and depends on the facts and deceased’s intentions whether to plow it back in, or like the children’s case they don’t need to be taken into account

NB: where spouses died at the same time, the older spouse is presumed to have died first. If there are children, half share of older spouse’s estate will go the younger spouse deemed to have died later, and the other half will go to the children

*Issues of illegitimate, adopted, foster children and step-children
* Illegitimate children: ISA excludes an illegitimate child from succeeding to his or her parent’s intestate estate subject to exceptions provided for (Lim Weipin)
o Illegitimate child can be legitimated by subsequent marriage of parents (Legitimacy Act s 3)
o Mother or illegitimate child intestate: --> only applies to mother - illegitimate child relationship (LA s 10)
(1) If mother of illegitimate child dies intestate and without leaving surviving legitimate children, illegitimate child can take as if legitimate; 
(2) If illegitimate child dies intestate, mother can take as if legitimate only surviving parent --> the father of the illegitimate child CANNOT CLAIM from estate of illegitimate child

* Adopted children: adopted child essentially treated as legitimate child in all aspects (Adoption of Children Act 2022 s 47)
o NB: only children adopted under Singapore, Brunei and Malaysian law would be a “child” under the ISA. So children adopted under a court order outside these 3 jurisdictions will not be considered a “child” for purposes of ISA
o In any intestacy, property devolves as if born in adoptive parents’ lawful wedlock (s 47(1))
o In any will, reference to adopter’s children presumed to include adopted children (s 47(2)(a))
o In any will, reference to natural parents’ children presumed to exclude given-up children (s 47(2)(b))
o In any will, reference to adopted child’s relatives construed as if born in adoptive parents’ lawful wedlock (s 47(2)(c))

* Biological child given up for adoption: if that child was officially adopted by the new family, he will be considered a child of the new family and does NOT count as a child of the deceased under ISA (s 7(2) Adopt of Children Act)

* Foster children: Foster children are not “children” under the ISA (Lim Weipin) --> no legal status in Singapore, just under a social scheme of MSF

* Step-children: “child” under s 3 of the [ISA] does not include step-children (Low Guang Hong David, [21]), thus step-children of deceased cannot claim under ISA

* Children from a previous marriage: also included as a “child” under s 7 rule 3 ISA. If that child has died, it will go to his issues instead:

**“Subject to the rights of the surviving spouse, if any, the estate (both as to the undistributed portion and the reversionary interest) of an intestate who leaves issue shall be distributed by equal portions per stirpes to and amongst the children of the person dying intestate and such persons as legally represent those children, in case any of those children be then dead.
Proviso No. (1) — The persons who legally represent the children of an intestate are their descendants and not their next?of?kin.
Proviso No. (2) — Descendants of the intestate to the remotest degree stand in the place of their parent or other ancestor, and take according to their stocks the share which he or she would have taken.”
--> i.e. goes down the descendants in the branch of the child’s family

NB: per stirpes means by branch, divided equally.

“Half blood” and “whole blood” family members 
Distinction: --> relevant where there is a dispute between members of the same generation, e.g. siblings
“whole blood”: The relationship existing between persons having the same two parents; 
“half blood”: The relationship existing between persons having the same father or mother, but not both parents in common 

Half-blood rank immediately after whole-bloods (s 6(b) ISA): 
Persons of the half-blood would only have a right to succeed if there were no persons of the full blood (or their children) surviving at the time of death of the deceased (Chng Heng Tee, [7])

*A3: Other issues relating to estates
A3(i): Inheritance (Family Provision) Act 1966 (IFPA)

Applicability of IFPA:
* IFPA does not apply to the estates of deceased Muslims (s1(2) IFPA)
* IFPA only applies where a person dies domiciled in Singapore (s3(1) IFPA)
* It is therefore important if one is advising clients on an IFPA matter to ascertain that the deceased person was domiciled in Singapore and was not a Muslim.
* Illegitimate children CANNOT claim under IFPA (AAG v Estate of AAH)
* Adopted children are considered “son and daughter” so CAN claim under IFPA (s2 IFPA)
* Unborn children in mother’s womb when testator dies CAN claim under IFPA (s2 IFPA)

Only “Dependents” can claim (s3(1) IFPA):
(a) a wife or husband;
(b) a daughter who has not been married* or who is, by reason of some mental or physical disability, incapable of maintaining herself;
o *in Jeanne Christine Monteiro v Ling Mie Hean [1997] SGHC 296, the unmarried Daughter was 61 years old
(c) an infant son (up until 21 years old); or
(d) a son who is, by reason of some mental or physical disability, incapable of maintaining himself.
s 2 IFPA: son and daughter include: 
* A male or female child adopted by the deceased by virtue of an order made under the provisions of any written law relating to the adoption of children for the time being in force in Singapore, Malaysia or Brunei Darussalam, and also
* The son or daughter of the deceased en ventre sa mere at the date of the death of the deceased
o “en ventre sa mere” literally means in the mother’s womb so if the child was conceived and in the womb of the mother when the father dies, such child, after his birth, would be entitled to claim for provision from the estate of the deceased father.

* AAG v Estate of AAH (deceased) [2010] 1 SLR 769
o The applicant had sought on behalf of her 2 illegitimate daughters for maintenance out of the estate of the deceased under the IFPA. The defendants/respondents were the administrators of the estate of the natural father of the illegitimate children. The sole issue in the appeal was whether an illegitimate child could claim for support and maintenance under the IFPA.
o The High Court and Court of Appeal held that IFPA does not allow illegitimate children to claim maintenance under the act.

Limitations to IFPA claims:
* Soh Siew Yok v Ching Kwong Yew [1991] SGHC 37 (“Soh’s case”)
o It is provided at section 3 (1) of the IFPA that if the court in this case it means an Family Justice Court (see definition of “family proceedings” in Section 2 of the Family Justice Act) - on an application by or on behalf of the dependants is of the opinion that the disposition of a deceased estate which is effected by his will or under the law relating to intestacy or a combination of both the Will and intestacy is not such as to make reasonable provision for the maintenance of that dependant, the court may order that such reasonable provision as the court thinks fit shall, subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the court may impose, be made out of the deceased’s net estate for the maintenance of that dependant. However where the disposition of a deceased’s estate is such that the surviving spouse is entitled to not less than two-thirds of the income of the net estate and where the only other dependant or dependants (if any) is or are a child or children of the surviving spouse, then the claim will fail.
--> i.e. dependents of surviving spouse CANNOT claim under IFPA if two-thirds or more of the deceased’s estate have been disposed to the surviving spouse
* AOS v Estate of AOT (deceased) [2012] 3 SLR 721
o Widow had a stormy marriage with her late husband, the testator, and commenced divorce proceedings, with a decree nisi being granted, but before ancillary matters could be determined, the testator died.
o Under his will, the testator gave his entire estate to his 8 year old grandson and nothing to his wife (the applicant) or his other children. The widow filed an IFPA application for herself and her 3 adult children.
o The Court held that the 2 adult male children who were studying overseas were not dependents and not eligible to claim under the IFPA, nor could in any case the mother claim on their behalf.
o The eldest son, aged 35 with cerebral palsy and obsessive compulsive disorder, had to make his own application and his mother could not apply for him.
o On the widow’s application for $20,000 a month or an alternative lump sum payment of $7.2 million, the Court of Appeal thought that in light of the inter vivos gifts that the testator had given to the appellant and her stated monthly expenses being less than the income that she was receiving, that there was no need to disturb the decision made by the High Court not to allow any further provision under the IFPA.
o The Court of Appeal reiterated that the IFPA is concerned with maintenance and not the creation of legacies. The appellant’s prayers were far in excess of what constituted reasonable maintenance under the IFPA. In claiming for half of the testator's estate, the appellant was seeking to incorporate the provisions of the Women's Charter concerning just and equitable division of matrimonial assets between divorcing parties into the IFPA. The Court of Appeal said they had no power to do so.

Time limits under s 4 and 6 IFPA:
s 4(1) IFPA: “6 months from the date on which representation in regard to the deceased’s estate is first taken out.”--> i.e. 6 months from the date of the grant of probate or LA
* s 4(2) IFPA: This 6 months period may be extended if the Court is satisfied that the 6 months would operate unfairly:
o in consequence of the discovery of a will or codicil involving a substantial change in the disposition of the deceased’s estate (whether or not involving a further grant of representation)
o in consequence of a question whether a person had an interest in the estate or as to the nature of an interest in the estate, not having been determined at the time when representation was first taken out; or
o in consequence of some other circumstances affecting the administration or distribution of the estate

* s 6(1) IFPA: after the time period in section 4, the court may make such order “only as respects property the income of which is at that date applicable for the maintenance of a dependent of the deceased”
o an order for varying the previous order on the ground that a material fact was not disclosed to the court when the order was made, or that a substantial change has taken place in the circumstances of the dependent or of a person beneficially interested in the property under the will or, as the case may be, under the law relating to intestacy; or
o an order for making provision for the maintenance of another dependent of the deceased

What the Court can order under IFPA:
Periodical payments (s 3(2) IFPA subject to s 3(4) IFPA) that will terminate no later than –
a) in the case of a wife or husband, her or his remarriage;
b) in the case of a daughter who has not been married, or who is under disability, her marriage or the cesser of her disability, whichever is the later;
c) in the case of an infant son, his attaining the age of 21 years;
d) in the case of a son under disability, the cesser of his disability,
or in any case, his or her earlier death.

s 3(4) IFPA provides that if the deceased’s net estate does not exceed $50 000 in value, the Court has the power to make an order providing for maintenance in whole or in part by way of a lump sum payment. --> i.e. court can order lump sum maintenance if net estate is less than $50K
* APZ v AQA – IFPA [2011] 3 SLR 1110
o Mother felt that the husband’s bequeath in his will of $10,000 to their son (they divorced) was insufficient. Accordingly, she applied under s 3(1)(c) of the Inheritance (Family Provision) Act (Cap 138, 1985 Rev Ed) (“IFPA”) for an order that a lump sum payment of $250,000 be made out of MB’s estate as reasonable provision for her infant son’s maintenance.
o By making an order under the IFPA, the court would be interfering with what would normally be the testator’s privilege to dispose of his own money in his own way. The purpose of the IFPA was thus limited to the provision of reasonable maintenance and not for the purpose of obtaining legacies out of the testator’s estate. This was evidenced in the wording of section 3(1) which stated that “if the court … is of the opinion that [the will does not] make reasonable provision” not that the testator has acted unreasonably. Outside of section 3(4), the IFPA did not envisage any capital payment, and the court was not empowered to make such an order. Therefore, if an order for provision of maintenance was to be made under section 3(1), the statutorily prescribed method for provision of maintenance out of the net estate was by way of periodical payments. Under section 3(3), periodic payments were not to be at an annual rate that exceeded the annual income of the net estate. The words “when realised” in s 2 IFPA suggested, as a matter of construction, that the annual income had to be received by the estate before it could be distributed.
o In a proper case, it was possible that having regard to the matters to which the court was to pay attention to under sections 3(6) and 3(7), the court might conclude that in the circumstances no provision be ordered. An example was where the court found that the testator had in his lifetime given substantial inter vivos gifts to the dependant and, hence, concluded that in the circumstances it was reasonable not to grant the application. Put another way, a nil provision might in the end be regarded as a reasonable provision given the circumstances of the case.

* Jeanne Christine Monteiro suing by her sister and next friend Monteiro Hyacinth Irene alias Monteiro Irene Anne v Ling Mie Hean and Another [1997] SGHC 296
o At [9]: “In construing whether the testator had made a disposition of his estate without making reasonable provisions for persons entitled to such provisions under section 3 of the Act, the court is entitled, and indeed, ought to consider any inter vivos gift by the testator to such applicants. If a testator had made adequate inter vivos provisions for the persons entitled under section 3(1), the court should not interfere with his right to determine who should have the benefit of his estate.”

Factors considered by the court in IFPA application:
s3(5) IFPA: In determining whether, and in what way, and as from what date, provision for maintenance ought to be made by an order, the court shall have regard to the nature of the property representing the deceased’s net estate and shall not order any such provision to be made as would necessitate a realisation that would be improvident (i.e. not having foresight / undisciplined) having regard to the interests of the deceased’s dependants and of the person who, apart from the order, would be entitled to that property.
s3(6) IFPA: The court shall, on any application made under this Act, have regard to any past, present or future capital or income from any source of the dependant of the deceased to whom the application relates, to the conduct of that dependant in relation to the deceased and otherwise, and to any other matter or thing which in the circumstances of the case the court may consider relevant or material in relation to that dependant, to persons interested in the estate of the deceased, or otherwise.
s3(7) IFPA: The court shall also, on any such application, have regard to the deceased’s reasons, so far as ascertainable, for making the dispositions made by his will (if any), or for refraining from disposing by will of his estate or part of his estate, or for not making any provision, or any further provision, as the case may be, **for a dependant, and the court may accept such evidence of those reasons as it considers sufficient including any statement in writing signed by the deceased and dated, so, however, that in estimating the weight, if any, to be attached to any such statement the court shall have regard to all the circumstances from which any inference can reasonably be drawn as to the accuracy or otherwise of the statement.
--> important to consider if client does NOT want to make reasonable provisions for some or all dependents. He can be advised of the problems that his executors will face, and be advised to include the reasons for the testator not providing financial provisions for his dependents which would ordinarily have been expected
s3(8) IFPA: The court in considering for the purposes of subsection (1), whether the disposition of the deceased’s estate effected by the law relating to intestacy, or by the combination of the deceased’s will and that law, makes reasonable provision for the maintenance of a dependant shall not be bound to assume that the law relating to intestacy makes reasonable provision in all cases.

Effect of a successful IFPA application:
s 5(1) IFPA: “Where an order is made under this Act, then for all purposes, including the purposes of the enactments relating to death duties, the will or the law relating to intestacy, or both the will and the law relating to intestacy, as the case may be, shall have effect, and shall be deemed to have had effect as from the deceased’s death, subject to such variations as may be specified in the order for the purpose of giving effect to the provision for maintenance thereby made.” 
--> i.e. the testator’s will shall have effect, SUBJECT TO VARIATION as specified in the IFPA order
s5(2) IFPA: “The court may give such consequential directions as it thinks fit for the purpose of giving effect to an order made under this Act, but no larger part of the net estate shall be set aside or appropriated to answer by the income thereof the provision for maintenance thereby made than such a part as, at the date of the order, is sufficient to produce by the income thereof the amount of the said provision.”
Thus, a person’s testamentary freedom is limited by the operation of this Act.

A3(ii): Maintenance of Parents Act 1995 (MPA)
S3 MPA: Applications for Maintenance orders
(1)  Subject to section 3B(1), any person domiciled and resident in Singapore who is of or above 60 years of age and who is unable to maintain himself or herself adequately (called in this section the parent) may apply to the Tribunal for an order that one or more of the person’s children pay him or her a monthly allowance or any other periodical payment or a lump sum for his or her maintenance.
(2)  Subject to section 3B(1), an approved person or organisation in whose care a parent resides may apply to the Tribunal for an order that one or more of the parent’s children pay the approved person or organisation a monthly allowance or any other periodical payment or a lump sum for the purpose of defraying the costs and expenses of maintaining the parent.
(4)  Where the parent ceases to be in the care of the approved person or organisation, any part of the monthly allowance, other periodical payment or lump sum remaining, after deducting the reasonable costs and expenses of maintaining the parent, must be held in trust for the parent.
(5)  For the purposes of this section, a parent is unable to maintain himself or herself if the parent’s total or expected income and other financial resources are inadequate to provide the parent with basic amenities and basic physical needs including (but not limited to) shelter, food, medical costs and clothing.
(6)  Even though a person is below the minimum age specified in subsection (1), this Act applies to that person if the Tribunal is satisfied that the person is suffering from infirmity of mind or body which prevents the person from maintaining or makes it difficult for the person to maintain himself or herself or that there is any other special reason.
(7)  The president or a deputy president of the Tribunal may dismiss any application made under this section, if he or she is of the opinion that the application is frivolous or vexatious, or if the applicant has failed to comply with subsection (3) or section 3A or 3B, and give the reasons for the dismissal.

S5 MPA: Maintenance orders
(1)  The Tribunal may make a maintenance order against a respondent in respect of the respondent’s parent if it considers that it is just and equitable that the respondent should maintain the parent and that —
(a) the respondent is able to provide maintenance to the parent after the respondent’s own requirements and those of his or her spouse and his or her children have been supplied; and
(b) the parent is unable, in spite of efforts on his or her part, to maintain himself or herself through work or from his or her property or from any other source.

(2)  When ordering maintenance, the Tribunal must have regard to all the circumstances of the case including (but not limited to) the following matters:
(a) the financial needs of the parent, taking into account reasonable expenses for housing and medical costs;
(b) the income, earning capacity, property and other financial resources of the parent, and the manner in which the parent has spent his or her savings or dissipated his or her financial resources;
(c) any physical or mental disability of the parent;
(d) the income, earning capacity, property and other financial resources of the respondent;
(e) the expenses incurred by the respondent in supporting his or her spouse or children;
(f) the contributions and provisions, whether financial or otherwise, which the respondent has made for the maintenance of the parent.

S7 MPA: Duration of maintenance orders
(1) Except where a maintenance order is expressed to be for any shorter period or where a maintenance order has been rescinded, a maintenance order made against a respondent in respect of the respondent’s parent expires —
(a) if the maintenance was unsecured — on the death of the parent or the respondent, whichever is the earlier; or
(b) if the maintenance was secured — on the death of the parent.
(2) Where a maintenance order was made against more than one respondent, the death of a respondent does not affect the liability of the others to continue paying maintenance to the applicant.
(3) The applicant may apply to the Tribunal to re-apportion the liability among the surviving respondents on the death of a respondent.

S11 MPA: Applications on behalf of incapacitated parents
(1)  Where a parent is unable to make an application under this Act (whether by reason of physical or mental infirmity or for any other reason), the application may be made on the parent’s behalf by —
(a) any family member of the parent;
(b) any person in whose care the parent resides; or
(c) any other person whom the parent has authorised to make the application.

(2)  Without affecting subsection (1), if the parent is a vulnerable adult in respect of whom —
(a) there is an order made by a court under section 14 or 15 of the Vulnerable Adults Act 2018; or
(b) the Director?General of Social Welfare or a protector has exercised any power under Division 1 or 2 of Part 2 of that Act,
the application may be made on the parent’s behalf by the Director?General of Social Welfare or a protector.

A3(iii): Comparison between dying testate and dying intestate 
Non-Muslims comparative tableDying testate (with a valid will)Dying intestate (no will)1. Right to choose one’s beneficiaries and determine their legaciesTestator has a free hand; subject only to reasonable provisions for dependents (under IFPA)Succession to estate is determined by the provisions of the Intestate Succession Act; 

Estate may be inherited by persons undeserving or even by the State in the instance of bona vacantia

People who the intestate laws may have assumed would be beneficiaries (e.g. step-children) will not be entitled to claim a share of the estate --> they need to be provided for in a valid will
2. Ability to choose the executor and Trustee of one’s will and set the terms of appointment

NB: important to advise T that they should choose an E who will or is likely to accept the appointment (and also have a substitute where E renounces his appointment or dies before T, or is unable through disability to apply for probate).

If E unable or unwilling to apply for probate, grant of LOA with will annexed pursuant to s13 PAA has to be applied for by those eligible under s13(2) PAA.Testator can choose the executors and trustees of the Will and set the scope of their powers.

The Executor need not be a next-of-kin or a beneficiary; it may be a professional or trust company, and if the will is valid, this choice is always given effect by the Court.

While the s400(1) IRDA disqualifies a bankrupt from being appointed or acting as a personal representative without the Court’s leave, the Court is likely to allow a bankrupt named as executor to take up the appointment to give effect to the testator’s choice.Only the next-of-kin who qualify under s 18(3) PAA can be the administrators; this could lead to a dispute as to which next-of-kin should be appointed as the administrator.

A bankrupt is very unlikely to be given leave to be appointed as an administrator, save for the limited exception for trustees of land settlement found at s 18(2) PAA.3. Minimum number of executors or personal representatives to administer an estate with a beneficiary who is a minorOnly one (1) executor is required, and substitute executor(s) can be appointed.

Up to 4 executors can be appointed (s6(1) PAA)

Executors prima facie can act jointly and severally. An act of one executor can bind the estate and other executors.

Tacplas Property Services v Lee Peter Michael At least two (2) administrators must be appointed (s 6 PAA), if there is a minor (below 21) or a life interest under the will

This could lead to additional inconvenience as the administrators have to act jointly and difficulty in finding the additional administrator willing to be appointed. 

If there is a minor who is a beneficiary, then regardless of the value of the estate, sureties are needed (or an application for dispensation of sureties has to be filed and an order of court obtained). This adds to the cost for LA proceedings4. Vesting of the deceased’s estate

(Teo Gim Tiong v Krisnasamy Pushpavathi [2014] 4 SLR 15)Vests in the executors upon death of testator, enabling the executor to handle deceased's affairs after death even before he has obtained the grant of probate, subject to production of probate if and when required.

Executor will be able to start calling in deceased’s assets and pay off debts

Executor can only start distributing assets AS TRUSTEEDoes not vest in the administrators until after letters of administration have been obtained.

Estate will vest in the Public Trustee in Singapore for purely statutory and formal purposes until a Grant is obtained by the Administrator.

The Estate will be in a state of limbo until a Grant of LA is obtained by the Administrator.5. Power to carry on the deceased's affairs and calling in of the deceased’s assetsExecutors have the power from the time the Deceased dies, to carry on the deceased’s affairs and call in the assets (subject to the validations of their actions by extraction of probate of the will, and any restrictions contained in the will).The intending administrators have no such power until they obtain the grant of LA.

Administrators cannot give good discharge for any payments that they collect until and unless a grant of LA has been obtained.6. Appointment of Guardians for infant children (s 6 and 7 of the Guardianship of Infants Act)A Testator who has infant children can appoint testamentary guardians for the children.

The Testator has free choice to appoint a testamentary guardian, and that guardian appointed under the will of the deceased parent shall act jointly with the surviving parent of the infant so long as the other parent remains alive, unless that parent objects to his so acting (s 7(3) Guardianship of Infants Act)

If the surviving parent objects, the testamentary guardian can apply to court for orders to be made under s 7(4) GIA.Where a person has died intestate, leaving children and the other parent of the children
surviving him, the surviving parent is the sole guardian, regardless of how the deceased parent may have thought of the ability and suitability of the surviving parent to be the sole guardian.

If both parents have died without a will, there may be disputes between the next of kin of both parents to be appointed guardians (and thereby control the finances of the estates of the deceased parents).7. Administration Bond and Sureties to the Administration BondNone required, since the deceased was the one who appointed the Executor. 

Where there is a will and the executors prove the will, s 29 PAA does not apply.

There are very substantial costs savings and time savings, as there is no need to apply for dispensation of sureties (which would incur oath fees to be paid for affidavit to support such application), no need to file Administration Bond and no need for executors to look for 2 people prepared to be sureties.All LA applications to the Family Division of the High Court require the Administrators to execute an Administration Bond and to provide 2 sureties (unless otherwise ordered by the
Court or an order for dispensation of sureties is granted). 

For LA applications to the Family Courts, if the circumstances of the Estate falls within certain classes as set out in the Family Courts (para 68 of the FJCPD), Admin Bond and 2 sureties also needed, to guarantee the Administrators’ proper performance of the administration. The amount to be secured is the gross value of the estate.

It can cost hardship and embarrassment to the Administrator to have to ask around for people to volunteer to be sureties.

Application for dispensation of sureties will add to the costs of the matter. Time, cost and delay involved in extracting grant.8. Shorter time and cheaper to obtain probate as compared to Letter of AdministrationThe grant of probate can be obtained faster and at lower expense for legal costs and court filing fees if there is a valid will – fewer documents to be filed.Even in the most straightforward of cases (and even if sureties and administration bonds are not required), it is slower and more costly to apply for a grant of LA as opposed to grant of probate. 

More documents have to be filed for a LA application than for a probate application.9. Need to prove deceased's religion, custom, personal law and ages and share entitlement of the beneficiaries.No such requirement in general.

However, if the will was executed outside Singapore, the Court may ask for an affidavit of foreign law to confirm the formal validity of the will (per s 5 Wills Act). 

If the will was homemade and/or not signed or witnessed properly, the Court may require an Affidavit of Due Execution of the Will to be filed by witnesses to the will.These have to be proved and causes delay in extracting grant of letters of administration, and this is exacerbated for deceased who have a foreign domicile, as the Court will require an Affidavit of Foreign Law by a
foreign lawyer.10. Chain of executorshipIf, AFTER OBTAINING THE GRANT OF PROBATE, the executor dies without having completed the administration of T’s estate, an executor of the executor’s will (if any) steps into the latter’s shoes and continues with the administration of the estate (s 25 Civil Law Act)No equivalent in intestate estates administration. 

If the administrator dies without completing the administration, the beneficiaries will have to apply for a grant de bonis non, a fresh application to court for grant of LA.11. Preservation and protection of family wealthA testator can stipulate that part or the whole of the family wealth is to be preserved subject to the rule against perpetuities and accumulations, for a period of time. This would ensure that the family wealth is not squandered by heirs.Without a will, the beneficiaries are entitled absolutely to receive their full entitlement under the ISA once all the estate has been collected in and debts paid. 

The administrator has no power to delay the distribution, since he would be in breach of fiduciary duties if he does so.12. Savings on stamp dutyThere is no stamp duty payable for the transfer by assent of a devised property to the named beneficiary, resulting in very substantial savings in stamp duty.

E.g. “I give my house at XXX to my son, XXX absolutely” --> no stamp duty regardless of the value of property or how many properties the devisee (the son) already ownsThe transfer by intestate succession may result in beneficiaries, having to execute a subsequent Deed of Family Arrangement in order to redistribute the estate according to the deceased’s wishes. 

This will result in very high ad valorem stamp duty (plus Additional Buyer’s Stamp Duty too) if the transfer of immovable property is involved.13. *Right of commencement of legal proceedingsExecutors have the right to commence legal proceedings in their capacity as named executors of the deceased T’s will, even though they may NOT YET have been issued the grant of probate. 

However, to obtain judgement and execute the judgement or order of court, executor must have extracted the grant of probate

Lee Han Tiong v Tay Yok SweeNo one has the right to commence any proceedings.

The persons who apply for grant of LA also cannot commence any proceedings qua administrators of the deceased’s estate until after they have extracted the grant of LA.

Teo Gim Tiong v Krishnasamy Pushpavathi14. Issuing good receipt and discharge in satisfaction of the deceased’s assetsIf executors are named in the will, or if any one of them gives any such discharge or receipt, this is sufficient, and can be done even before probate is extracted.No valid receipt or discharge may be given by an administrator unless he has extracted grant of letters of administration. Third parties are thus unwilling to deal with administrators unless they are able to produce the grant.15. Remuneration of the personal representativeThe testator can set and fix the remuneration of the Executor (though in the absence of an express stipulation in the will, s 66 PAA will apply)The personal representative can apply to the Court for commission under s 66 PAA. This rate of commission may be as high as 5% of the value of the assets collected.In spite of the above, some people choose not to make a will because they cannot decide how their estates should be distributed and they are happy for the Intestate Succession Act to apply to their estate. In light of the advantages of testacy mentioned above, such clients should still be strongly encouraged to make a will so that there is an executor who will carry out their wish that the distribution of the estate is to follow the ISA In this way, they can enjoy the best of both worlds!


*A4: Probate and Administration
Obtaining a grant of representation
Types of grants:
1. Grant of probate (Testacy)
2. Grant of letters of administration (Intestacy)
3. Grant of letters of administration with will annexed (s 13 PAA)
4. Grant of representation by a Commonwealth/Hong Kong court: Resealing of foreign grant (PAA s 47)

General points:
* Administrator must give security for administration bond (PAA s 49)
* “Every document which is not in the English language must be accompanied (a) by a translation of the document certified by a court interpreter; or (b) by a translation verified by the affidavit of a person qualified to translate it” (FJR r 953)
* Affidavit of foreign law must be filed by any person who practices or has practiced in that jurisdiction to provide evidence of law on application for a grant (FJCPD para 65)

Probate jurisdiction of the FJC: 
* Family Division of High Court (SGHCF): estate is worth more than $5m; 
* Family Courts in FJC (s 2 Family Justice (Family Proceedings before Family Division of High Court) Order 2014): estate worth less than $5m

Pre-requisite for grant of probate: locating the original will, unless:
(1) it had been proved and deposited in court outside Singapore (s 11 PAA) or 
- then a properly authenticated copy of the will must be produced

(2) it is lost. If the original will cannot be found it can be proved with a (a) copy or (b) otherwise (s 9 PAA)
(a) a copy or draft may be used if “it appears that” it is “identical in terms with the original”, limited until the original is admitted to probate; or 
(b) “probate may be granted of the contents of the will, if they can be sufficiently established”, limited until the original is admitted to probate. 

--> Cheo Yeoh v AEL: there is presumption of revocation if the original will is not found (i.e. presumption that it was revoked by T). Can still apply for grant of probate with a copy of the will, but need to satisfy the court that the presumption of revocation is rebutted

* Procedure: application for an order admitting to proof of the will must be made by originating summons (r 248 FJR)

Deceased died domiciled outside Singapore (r 227 FJR):
(1) application may be made to Registrar for an order for a grant to a person to administer the estate by the law of the place where deceased died domiciled; 
(2) if no application is made, probate may be granted in Singapore “where the whole of the estate in Singapore consists of immovable property, a grant limited to that immovable property” 

When can personal representatives commence acting for the deceased’s estate?
* For executors, before obtaining the grant of probate (Lee Han Tiong)
* For administrators, only after the grant of letters of administration (Teo Gim Tiong)

Wong Moy exception (as stated in Mustaq Ahmad v Ayaz Ahmed): the Court of Appeal held that a beneficiary would have the standing to commence an action on behalf of the estate to protect the estate’s assets; crucially, there is no restriction as to the kinds of action that a beneficiary may institute to protect the estate’s assets, save that the beneficiary cannot be in a better position than a trustee carrying out his duties in a proper manner
* In Mustaq, beneficiaries of the estate were allowed to take out minority oppression claims on behalf of the estate against the wrongdoer (the executor and administrator of the estate)
* A beneficiary may in certain circumstances institute action to recover assets of the estate. Such special circumstances are not confined solely to cases where the personal representative has defaulted in acting to recover the property, and all the circumstances of the case should be considered, including the nature of the assets, the position of the personal representative and the reason for the default of the personal representative. It would also be pertinent to consider whether the circumstances made it impossible or seriously inconvenient for the representative to take proceedings
* The applicability of the Wong Moy exception was not restricted to the protection of certain classes of assets

Responsibility of executors (in probate) and administrators (in LA or LA with will annexed)
Tacplas Property Services v Lee Peter Michael:
* Executors can act jointly and severally, and the acts of one executor could bind the estate and the other executors
* But administrators of an estate MUST act jointly and the act of one administrator cannot bind the estate, unless that act was ratified by all administrators

Non-contentious applications
*Persons with entitlement to grant
1. Testacy: (for probate) executor(s) named in the will 
* But if executors fail to execute because they are incapable or unwilling under s 13 and 14 PAA, see below for order of administrators)

If there is a will (i.e. grant of LA with will annexed), then the order is as follows (s 13(2) PAA):
(a) Universal or residuary legatee (beneficiary of the residue of an estate)
(b) Legal representative of a deceased universal or residuary legatee
(c) Beneficiaries under the will who would have been entitled to a grant if deceased died intestate
(d) Legatee with beneficial interest in the deceased’s estate
(e) Creditor

2. Intestacy: (for LA) court has discretion whom to appoint due to s 18(2) PAA, but starting point is priorities of entitlement under s 18(4) PAA (Toh Seok Kheng, [23]) --> follows priorities of entitlement under laws of intestate succession (s 7 ISA)

S 18(4) PAA:
(a) “Spouse
(b) Issue (including descendants) 
(c) Parents 
(d) Where no such persons (husband, widow, next of kin) applies, LOA may be granted to a creditor of the deceased. 
(e) Any other person the court think appropriate in any case where —
(i) dying intestate, or the greater number of such next of kin, so desire; or
(ii) no next of kin or creditor or other person appears and makes out a claim to letters of administration,
letters of administration of the estate and effects of the intestate may be granted by the court to such person as the court thinks fit for the purpose”

Number of administrators (for LA and LA with will annexed)
* not more than 4 persons (s 6(1) PAA)
* if there is a minor (below 21) who is a beneficiary or a life interest under the deceased’s estate, need at least 2 administrators for the estate (s 6(2) PAA)
* cf grant of probate where only 1 executor at minimum is required

Clearing off prior rights of deceased’s beneficiaries
* How to renounce: (a) orally at hearing of probate application or (2) in writing in Form 53(a) attested by solicitor (s 3(2) PAA)
* Effect of Renunciation of probate: (1) precludes person from applying for grant, (2) but court can allow person to withdraw renunciation for benefit of estate or interested persons (s 5 PAA)
* If a party renounces his right to apply for grant of probate, that is the only right he renounced (r 233(1) FJR) – his right to inherit under the will or other matters or debts due remain unaffected.

* Prior rights in intestacy: Court will require renunciation from those with higher priority under s 18(4) PAA (Toh Seok Kheng, [26])  
--> if those with higher priority are unwilling to renounce, then need to lodge a citation against them

* Not necessary to obtain renunciations from parties within the same class of priority (Estate of Tan Hui Cheng)

Resealing of grant of representation by a Commonwealth / Hong Kong court
Resealing of foreign grant by SG court – deceased must be domiciled in the jurisdiction where the grant was issued (e.g. Vanuatu)

If deceased was not domiciled in Vanuatu, then the SG court will still issue a grant, provided it is something the General Division of the High Court would have made – i.e. value of estate exceeds $5M, which involves property and real estate in Singapore governed by Singapore law

WKR v WKQ:
It is undisputed that Vanuatu is a Commonwealth jurisdiction, and that the Vanuatu Grant falls under s 47(1)(a) of the PAA. Pursuant to s 47(4) of the PAA, the court, in granting a resealing application, must first determine the issue of the deceased’s domicile. If it appears that the deceased person is not domiciled in the jurisdiction where the foreign court had issued the grant, the court should not reseal the grant, unless the grant is one that would have been made by the Singapore courts. Section 47(2) of the PAA provides for the power of the court to require evidence of the deceased’s domicile if it deems fit. In addition, even if the deceased person was found to be domiciled in the jurisdiction where the grant was issued, the court still retains the discretion in determining whether to reseal the foreign grant. The use of the word “may” in s 47(1) of the PAA, in contrast to the usage of mandatory language found elsewhere in the statute, suggests that the grant of a resealing application is discretionary.

(a)?A person who wishes to reseal a Commonwealth grant may apply to do so by an ex parte originating summons. Such a person must show evidence that the deceased was domiciled in the jurisdiction of the grant sought to be resealed (s 47 of the PAA, r 208(1) of the FJR).
(b)?Even where domicile is proved, the court retains a discretion to refuse to reseal the grant. There may also be reasons for which others may wish to oppose the grant. A person interested who wishes to oppose the resealing of the grant may file a caveat (s 33 of the PAA, r 239(1) of the FJR). Once filed, the caveat remains in force for six months and operates to prevent the making of a grant by the Registrar (rr 239(3) to 239(5) of the FJR).
(c)?After a caveat has been lodged, any person interested may issue the caveator a warning which requires the caveator to state his interest and give particulars of any contrary interest which he may have in the deceased’s estate (r 239(7) of the FJR). On such warning being served on him, the caveator must enter an appearance and file and serve a summons for directions (rr 239(11) to 239(13) of the FJR). Upon issuance of the summons for directions, the matter shall be deemed to be contested (r 239(16) of the FJR).
(d)?The contested matter must then be referred to a Judge who may dispose of the matter in dispute in a summary manner, or direct that the matter proceeds to trial (r 240 of the FJR).
(e)?If the court directs that the matter proceeds to trial, a “probate action” will be deemed to have been commenced and the provisions of Division 2 of Part 14 of the FJR will apply (r 240 of the FJR).
(f)?A caveat in respect of which a summons for direction has been issued would “remain in force until the commencement of a probate action or the making of an order for the caveat to cease to have effect” (r 242(b) of the FJR).
(g)?The commencement of a probate action operates to prevent the sealing of a grant, until an application for a grant is made by the person shown to be entitled to the grant by the decision of the court in the probate action (r 242(c) of the FJR). This ensures that no grant is sealed until the final adjudication of the probate action.

STAGE 1: Procedural Steps to be complied with for the filing of the application for Grant (Rules 208 and 209 FJR, and Paragraphs 62 to 69 FJCPD)
(i) File ex parte Originating Summons, Statement in Form 51, certified true copy of death certificate, certified true copy (“CTC”) of will (if any) 
o Statement in Form 51 should:
a. Set out the particulars and facts (e.g. true name of deceased – as set out in the death certificate, date of death and place of death)
b. Where necessary to describe the deceased in a grant by other name in addition to his true name, it must be stated and explained in the Statement
c. Any other relevant information, like reason for delay in applying for grant
o CTCs of digitally verifiable death certificates/death extracts issued by the Registrar of Births and Deaths, Singapore are not required 
o Note for probate and caveat search: no longer mandatory for applicant to conduct searches for cases where the deceased died on or after 15 December 2003 (the date when electronic filing was fully implemented). Backend caveat and probate searches will be done by the system 
- Applicant may conduct litigation search in the record of caveats and probate applications to ascertain if there are any caveats or previous probate applications in respect of the estate and consider whether to proceed with filing (FJCPD 62(2))
- Where deceased died BEFORE 15 Dec 2003, applicant must state in Statement, whether to the best of the applicant’s knowledge, there are any caveats or probate applications in respect of the deceased’s estate

(ii) By 4.30 pm of the next working day after the filing of the originating summons – the original will, original foreign grant or sealed certified true copy of the foreign grant (if any) must be submitted to the Probate Counter for verification 

(iii) Take note of electronic checklist which will be generated upon filing and will indicate status of documents filed, together with a provisional reference number. If the court accepts the OS, a Probate Number replacing the provisional reference number will be issued and a hearing date will be set
o If court rejects the OS, make the necessary corrections and resubmit

STAGE 1A: Other relevant documents for filing of application (Rules 208 and 209 FJR, Paragraphs 62 to 67 FJPCD): 
(i) Deceased’s aliases 
(ii) If will is not executed in English language – translations 
(iii) If death certificate or other documents are not in English language – translations 
(iv) Affidavit of Due Execution (R 211 and 215 FJR), any relevant affidavits if required by the Registrar in the following situations: 
a. Where there is no attestation clause, where the clause is insufficient or where there is doubt about due execution of the will (R 211)
b. Where signature on will was by blind or illiterate T, or will was signed by another person directed by T or where there are reasons casting doubt on whether T understood the contents of the will (R 212)
c. Where there appears to be any changes made in the will which are not compliant with the Wills Act (R 213)
d. Presumption of revocation by T due to the attempted destruction of the will or due to any other circumstance (R 214)
(v) Affidavit of Foreign Law (when electronic filing checklist is generated) (R 218 FJR / Para 65 FJPCD) --> where evidence of law of a country outside Singapore is required on any application for a grant
(vi) Renunciation(s) (Form 53) – if executor wishes not to accept office, or for applicants to be administrators in intestacy cases

Delay in applying for grant (i.e., if grant is filed more than 6 months after death of the deceased) 
* Rule 208(8) FJR – reason for delay in applying for the grant should be included in the Statement in Form 51

STAGE 2: Procedural steps after filing of the application: 
(i) Supporting Affidavit of personal representative (Rule 208 FJR, Paragraph 63 FJCPD, Form 225) – MUST BE FILED WITHIN 14 DAYS AFTER FILING THE ORIGINATING SUMMONS
(ii) Administration Oath (Section 28 PAA, Form 54) --> may be filed at the same time as Supporting Affidavit if not filed with Originating Summons
(iii) Schedule of Assets (if available) (Form 226) should be filed together with Supporting Affidavit. 
o But if unable, it can be filed together with a Supplementary Affidavit later on – application is made without the filing of Schedule of Assets with Supporting Affidavit because banks generally require a sealed copy of OS before disclosing information about deceased’s assets
o Schedule of Assets will be filed on a “to the best of the applicant’s knowledge at that time” basis. The applicant will provide an undertaking to amend the schedule when further information is obtained on the assets. Leave is not required to amend the schedule of assets. The amended schedule can be filed with an affidavit to explain what is being amended and to verify the amended schedule 
o Declare market value of assets at or around date of death (e.g. through bank statements)
o For jointly held assets, by right, subject to right of survivorship and not included in the schedule of assets unless argued otherwise
o Bank accounts with zero balance can be included, but Court is likely to query why they are included in the schedule. Reasons should be provided, e.g. to close the accounts

*STAGE 3: Further steps before extraction of Grant (especially for LA)
(i) For letters of administration, consider whether security in the form of an Administration Bond (Form 55) is required, and if so, what are the requirements regarding the 2 sureties to the Administration Bond (Section 29 PAA, Paragraph 68 FJCPD) --> the sureties promise to undercover any loss that may be caused by the administrators
o Court will require security in the following situations:
a. Gross value of estate exceeds $5M
b. There is minority interest in the estate (e.g. child) 
--> where sureties are needed because there are minors, also need to deal with s 33 and s 34 Trustees Act which relates to issues of maintenance and advancement for the minor – so need affidavit to explain to the court, during this period of time, how would the minors be maintained and how much of the minor beneficiaries’ inheritance would be used towards the maintenance 

c. There is a life interest in the estate
d. There is a beneficiary lacking capacity
e. Grantee of LA is a creditor
f. Such other cases as the Registrar thinks fit
o Where the Public Trustee has obtained a grant of LA, he shall NOT be required to give security (s 29(4) PAA)

(ii) Consider the requirements if an application for dispensation of sureties is required (Section 29(3) PAA, Paragraph 69 FJCPD)
o Court may vary amount of bond or the number of sureties or dispense with sureties to the bond (s 29(3) PAA)
o An application to dispense with sureties is made by summons supported by an affidavit given by the administrators and any co-administrators – it must contain the consent in writing of all adult beneficiaries
o When the administrator is entitled to the whole of the estate after payment of debts, sureties in the bond may ordinarily be dispensed with (s 29(5) PAA)
o After the court has granted the application for dispensation of sureties, proceed to file the Administration Bond (must be signed jointly by all administrators) and extract the Order of Court for LA

(iii) Where security is not required, the court will issue grant of LA automatically if Originating Summons has been granted and the Schedule of Assets and all supporting documents have been filed. Administrator would then administer the estate and distribute assets in accordance with the will (for LA with will annexed) or ISA (for LA)

(iv) NB: a printed grant, if required, must be applied for when filing the Original Summons

Contentious Applications
“probate action”: means “an action for the grant of probate of the will, or letters of administration of the estate, of a deceased person or for the revocation of such a grant or for a decree pronouncing for or against the validity of an alleged will, not being an action which is non?contentious” (r 252(1) FJR)

Issues arising in probate actions
1. Paradigm case: dispute as to testator’s testamentary capacity and allegations of undue influence or duress in execution of will (See above under Testamentary Capacity)
2. Lack of formality (See above under Will Formalities)
3. Fraud or Forgery
* Standard: “The evidentiary burden of proof in so far as the allegations of forgery and fraud are concerned must, perforce, be at the upper end of the scale, albeit on a balance of probabilities.” (R Mahendran, [17])
* Handwriting evidence is not the only evidence (Nina Kung, [12])
4. Subsequent marriage which revoked the will (Arpinya)
5. Passing over of named executors under will in breach of s 8 PAA (Chiang Shirley)
6. Revocation of grant of probate under s 32 PAA
* Test for revocation: “The applicable test for whether an executor should be removed involves taking into account whether there has been improper administration of the estate.” (UCH v UVJ, [72])
* E.g. “any evidence of misconduct on the part of the executors that demonstrates “undue and improper administration of the estate in total disregard of the interests of the beneficiaries” would be sufficient to revoke probate” (UCH v UVJ explaining Jigarlal, [12])
* Note: no revocation was ordered as the administration of the estate in Singapore is almost completed and so no longer any practical purpose to revoke the grant of probate and Public Trustee in Malaysia had no objections despite a finding by the Malaysian court that the executors failed to discharge their duties properly with reference to the assets in Malaysia in Jigarlal

Commencement of probate actions and procedure
Caveats (r 239 to 242 FJR)
* S 33 PAA: Effect of caveat
(1)  Any person having or claiming to have interest may, at any time after the death of a deceased person and before probate or letters of administration have been granted to his estate, enter a general caveat, so that no probate or letters of administration shall be granted without notice to the caveator.
(2)  After entry of any such caveat no such grant shall be made until the caveator has been given opportunity to contest the right of any probate applicant to a grant.
* Person entering a caveat is called the caveator, and must enter it with Form 57 (FJR r 239(2))
* Caveat effective for 6 months (FJR r 239(3))
* Registrar can warn the caveator by issuing a Warning in Form 58 at instance of person warning, which must state the latter’s interest and if he claims under a will, the date of the will, and must require the caveator to give particulars of any contrary interest which he may have in the deceased’s estate (FJR r 239(7)-(13))
o Warning must be served on caveator
o Caveator can enter an appearance to warning in Form 59. If not, he may withdraw his caveat by filing a notice of withdrawal and caveat will cease to be effective – notice of withdrawal must be served on the person warning
o A caveator with an interest contrary to person warning, must enter an Appearance within 8 days of service of warning and serve the appearance on person warning (r 239(11) FJR)
o A caveator without an interest contrary, but wishing to show cause against making of a grant (of probate) to that person, may enter an Appearance within 8 days of service of warning and serve the appearance on person warning (r 239(12) FJR) 
o If caveator enters appearance to warning, he must file and serve summons for directions within 14 days after the 8 day time for entering an Appearance (i.e. 14 + 8 days from receiving a warning) (r 239(13) FJR) --> if a summons for directions is issued, the matter is deemed CONTESTED
o If caveator fails to do so, person warning may file an affidavit showing that the warning was duly served and apply by summons for an order for the caveat to cease to have effect (r 239(14) FJR)

* Every contested matter must be referred to a Judge who may dispose of the matter in dispute in a summary manner, or direct that provisions relating to contentious probate proceedings apply (i.e. r 252-271 FJR) (r 240 FJR)

* Effect of caveat upon commencement of probate action (r 242 FJR):
o any caveat in force at the commencement of proceedings by way of citation shall, unless withdrawn pursuant to rule 239(9), remain in force until an application for a grant is made by the person shown to be entitled to the grant by the decision of the Court in such proceedings, and upon such application any caveat entered by a party who had notice of the proceedings shall cease to have effect;
o any caveat in respect of which a summons for directions has been issued shall remain in force until the commencement of a probate action or the making of an order for the caveat to cease to have effect; and
o the commencement of a probate action shall, whether or not any caveat has been entered, operate to prevent the sealing of a grant (other than a grant under section 20) until application for a grant is made by the person shown to be entitled to the grant by the decision of the Court in such action, and upon such application any caveat entered by a party who had notice of the action, or by a caveator who was given notice under rule 241, shall cease to have effect

Citations (r 243-245 FJR; r 256, 258 and 259 FJR)
A citation is used to force some action or step in relation to the taking of the grant to the estate.

* Citor must enter a caveat before issuing citation (FJR, r 243(4))
* Every citation in one of the forms in Form 60 must issue from the Registry (r 243(1))
* Averments in citation must be verified by affidavit (r 243(2))
* Citation must be served personally on person cited (r 243(6))
* Person cited can enter appearance in Form 59. Appearance must be entered within 8 days (r 243(8))
* If person cited is willing to accept grant, can apply by ex parte originating summons to Registrar for order for grant. Must file affidavit showing: (1) he has entered appearance and (2) he has not been served by citor with notice of application for grant to him (r 244(5))

A citation to accept or refuse a grant may be issued at the instance of any person (citor) who would himself be entitled to a grant in the event of the person cited renouncing his right to the grant.

A citation to propound a will must be directed to the executors named in the will and to all persons interested under the will, and may be issued at the instance of any citor having an interest contrary to that of the executors or such other persons.

Example of citation:
Assuming that a person on top of the priority list is uncontactable, an application may be made to the Family Justice Courts to prove “constructive renunciation” of the person with the priority.

Probate citation proceedings in Singapore should be commenced. This involves serving the Defendant (i.e. the person with the priority) the citation. The Defendant should enter an appearance and make an application for the grant of probate/ letters of administration by a certain date. Even if there is no appearance entered by the Defendant, it should be proven that the Defendant has “constructively renounced” his/ her right to be the administrator/ executor.

All the circumstances should be taken as a whole. If the Defendant is uncontactable but had expressed an intention to be the administrator/ executor, the probate citation proceedings in Singapore would not result in the renunciation of the rights of the Defendant. For instance, the Defendant may have meddled with the deceased’s affairs and acted like an administrator/ executor. In some cases, the Defendant may respond out of time.

Even if the Defendant is taken to have constructively renounced his/ her right, the Defendant may withdraw his/ her renunciation if it is for the benefit of the estate or beneficiaries under the Will/ intestacy.

General points
* Probate action must be begun by writ (FJR r 253)
* Entry of appearance and filing of pleadings (FJR r 261-265)
* Intervener in probate action: A person not a party to a probate action may apply to the Court for leave to intervene in a probate action. (r 255(1) FJR)
* Joinder of parties and notice of proceedings: All parties affected by the probate action should either be joined as parties or served with notice of the proceedings under Rule 362 FJR (Notice of Action)
* Discontinuance (r 267 FJR):
At any stage of the proceedings in a probate action the Court may, on the application of the plaintiff or of any party who has entered an appearance —
(a) order the action to be discontinued on such terms as to costs or otherwise as it thinks just; and
(b) further order that a grant of probate of the will, or letters of administration of the estate, of the deceased person, as the case may be, which is the subject of the action be made to the person entitled to the grant.

Administration pending trial
* “Pending any probate action, letters of administration may be granted to such person as the court may appoint, limited so that the administrator shall not be empowered to distribute the estate, and shall be subject to such control by, and direction of, the court as the court thinks fit.” (s 20 PAA)
* “An application under section 20 of the Probate and Administration Act (Cap. 251) for the grant of administration may be made to the Registrar by originating summons.” (FJR r 271(1))

Costs (r 855 FJR)
Rule 855 FJR: Restriction of discretion to order costs
(1)  Despite anything in this Division or under any written law, unless the Court is of the opinion that there was no reasonable ground for opposing the will, no order shall be made for the costs of the other side to be paid by the party opposing a will in a probate action who has given notice with his defence to the party setting up the will that he —
(a) merely insists upon the will being proved in solemn form of law; and
(b) only intends to cross?examine the witnesses produced in support of the will.
--> i.e. if there is REASONABLE GROUND FOR OPPOSING WILL, there will be no cost order imposed on party opposing a will in a probate action to be paid to the party upholding a will, if the opposer gave notice that he merely insists on the will being proven and only intends to cross-examine witness produced in support of the will

(2)  Where a person is or has been a party to any proceedings in the capacity of trustee, personal representative or mortgagee, he shall, unless the Court otherwise orders, be entitled to the costs of those proceedings, in so far as they are not recovered from or paid by any other person, out of the fund held by the trustee or personal representative or out of the mortgaged property, as the case may be.

(3)  The Court may otherwise order, under paragraph (2), only on the ground that —
(a) the trustee, personal representative or mortgagee has acted unreasonably; or
(b) where the fund is held by the trustee or personal representative, the trustee or personal representative has in substance acted for his own benefit rather than for the benefit of the fund


B. Care for loss of mental capacity
*B1: Mental Capacity Act (MCA): Ascertaining capacity
The Act applies to everyone who deals with a person over 21 years of age, who lacks mental capacity to make specific decisions. These individuals include (but are not limited to) Donees of an LPA, Deputies appointed by the court and people who provide care or treatment (whether paid or not).

Note: Power exercisable under this Act is not exercisable in relation to person below 21 years of age (s 4(5) MCA)

Note Code of Practice issued by Minister under s 41 MCA for laypersons to explain pretty much all aspects of the MCA.

Principles on capacity (s 3 MCA)
(2)  A person must be assumed to have capacity unless it is established that the person lacks capacity.
(3)  A person is not to be treated as unable to make a decision unless all practicable steps to help the person to do so have been taken without success.
(4)  A person is not to be treated as unable to make a decision merely because the person makes an unwise decision.

Decision made for or on behalf of a person lacking capacity MUST BE IN THE PERSON’S BEST INTERESTS (s 3(5)-(6) MCA)
(5)  An act done, or a decision made, under this Act for or on behalf of a person who lacks capacity must be done, or made, in the person’s best interests.
(6)  Before the act is done, or the decision is made, regard must be had to whether the purpose for which it is needed can be as effectively achieved in a way that is less restrictive of the person’s rights and freedom of action.

Test for capacity under s 4(1)
s 4(1) MCA: Persons who lack capacity
A person lacks capacity in relation to a matter if at the material time the person is unable to make a decision for himself or herself in relation to the matter because of an impairment of, or a disturbance in the functioning of, the mind or brain.

“Functional aspect is that P must be unable to make a decision, and the clinical aspect is that this inability must be caused by a mental impairment” (Re BKR, [134])
* It does not matter whether the impairment or disturbance is permanent or temporary (s 4(2) MCA)
* A lack of capacity cannot be established merely by reference to:
(a) age or appearance; or 
(b) a condition of the person, or an aspect of the person’s behaviour, which might lead others to make unjustified assumptions about the person’s capacity (s 4(3) MCA)
* Standard of proof: “any question whether a person lacks capacity within the meaning of this Act must be decided on the balance of probabilities” other than proceedings for offences (s 4(4) MCA)

The test for lack of mental capacity is time-specific and decision-specific (i.e. in relation to a specific matter, at the material time), rather than a blunt, all-or-nothing test (Re BKR)
1. Time-specific
a. Impairment may be temporary or permanent 
b. Person may have good days and bad days, or even good mornings and bad afternoons

2. Decision-specific
a. Unable to make a decision in relation to a specific matter (e.g. moving house)
b. Person may have mental capacity to make some decisions, but not all

(a) Functional aspect
“a question for [the court] to grapple with leaving perhaps a limited scope for the involvement of the medical experts” (Re BKR, [134])

A person is unable to make a decision for himself or herself if the person is unable – [CONJUNCTIVE REQUIREMENTS – SO FUNCTIONAL ASPECT FAILS AS LONG AS ONE IS SATISFIED] 
(a) to understand the information relevant to the decision (s 5(1)(a) MCA); OR
o Does not apply if the person is “able to understand an explanation of it given to him or her in a way that is appropriate to his or her circumstances (using simple language, visual aids or any other means)” (s 5(2) MCA)
o The information relevant to a decision includes information about the reasonably foreseeable consequences of (a) deciding one way or another; or (b) failing to make the decision. (s 5(4) MCA)

(b) to retain that information (s 5(1)(b) MCA); OR
o The fact that a person is able to retain the information relevant to a decision for a short period only does not prevent the person from being regarded as able to make the decision. (s 5(3) MCA) --> i.e. even if P retains for a short period, he can still make the decision

(c) to use or weigh that information as part of the process of making the decision (s 5(1)(c) MCA); OR

(d) to communicate his or her decision (whether by talking, using sign language or any other means) (s 5(1)(d) MCA)

Person with schizophrenia may satisfied clinical aspect, but if he remains functional then he does NOT lack mental capacity.

(b) Clinical aspect
* “Need medical professionals to tell us whether P has a mental impairment based on the observable symptoms and any other diagnostic tools available, and if so, what that impairment is, and what effect it has on P’s cognitive abilities.” (Re BKR, [134])
* Mental impairment does not have to be the sole cause of the inability make a decision (Re BKR); e.g. undue influence in Re BKR

BUV v BUU [2020] 3 SLR 1041:
* The test for capacity in section 4(1) of the MCA had a functional and clinical component. The functional aspect was that the subject had to be unable to make a decision, and the clinical aspect was that this inability had to be caused by a mental impairment. The functional component was a judgment for the court to make based on the evidence as to the degree the subject’s mental functioning was compromised. Answers in cross-examination should be considered in assessing the functional component, to shed light on whether the subject was able to retain, understand, use and weigh information relevant to decisions and her symptoms as might shed light on the nature of her mental impairment.
* The requirements under section 5(1) of the MCA, which defined the inability to make a decision, were to be read conjunctively. The court’s assessment as to mental capacity should be made holistically.
* Section 3(3) of the MCA stated that a person was not to be treated as unable to make a decision unless all practicable steps to help her do so have been unsuccessful. This allowed for the possibility of mental capacity being exercised with some assistance, but did not mean that any impairment could be sufficiently mitigated by assistance. There had to be a base level of capacity for the subject to recognise the shortcomings she might have. Read with section 5(2), any assistance was aimed at helping a person retain her existing decision-making capability.

(c) Causal connection 
* There must be a causal connection between the impairment of the mind and the inability to make decisions (Re BKR)
a. But-for causation is sufficient
b. Impairment need not be the sole cause of the inability to make decisions – inability can be due to a number of effective causes (including undue influence). As long as mental impairment is one of those causes, it is sufficient

*B2: Mental Capacity Act: Acts and Decisions covered by the MCA
* Principles on best interests: 
o An act done, or a decision made, under this Act for or on behalf of a person who lacks capacity must be done, or made, in the person’s best interests. (s 3(5) MCA)
o “Before the act is done, or the decision is made, regard must be had to whether the purpose for which it is needed can be as effectively achieved in a way that is less restrictive of the person’s rights and freedom of action.” (s 3(6) MCA)
* Duties to determine best interests of a person under s 6(1)-6(9) MCA apply to exercise of any power under (a) lasting power of attorney; (b) under MCA where person reasonably believes that another person lacks capacity (s 6(10) MCA)

Duties to determine best interests of a person (s 6 MCA factors)
* Person making the determination of what is in the best interest must not make it merely on the basis of (a) age or appearance; or condition of the person, aspect of the behaviour (s 6(1) MCA)
* NB: In the case of an act done, or a decision made, by a person other than the court, there is sufficient compliance with this section if (having complied with the requirements of subsections (1) to (9)) the person reasonably believes that what the person does or decides is in the best interests of the person concerned (s 6(11) MCA)

Person making the determination must consider all the relevant circumstances and, in particular, take the steps specified in subsections (3) to (9) (s 6(2) MCA). Relevant circumstances are those of which the person making the determination is aware and which it would be reasonable to regard as relevant (s 6(12) MCA):
1. Future capacity: must consider 
(a) “whether it is likely that the person will at some time have capacity in relation to the matter in question; and 
(b) if [so], when that is likely to be.” (s 6(3) MCA)

2. Person making determination should encourage P’s participation in decision making:
“so far as is reasonably practicable, permit and encourage the person to participate, or to improve the person’s ability to participate, as fully as possible in any act done for the person and any decision affecting the person” (s 6(4) MCA)

3. Life-sustaining treatment: 
“Where the determination relates to life-sustaining treatment, he or she must not be motivated by a desire to bring about the death of the person concerned.” (s 6(5) MCA)

4. Human Biomedical Research Act / clinical trials:
“Where the determination relates to the giving, refusal or revocation of consent to (a) Human Biomedical Research Act 2015; or (b) any written law relating to a clinical trial, must take into account matters prescribed under respective laws (s 6(6) MCA)
o “Where the determination relates to the giving, refusal or revocation of (a) appropriate consent under the Human Biomedical Research Act 2015, must take into account matters prescribed under Part 3 of that Act; or 
o consent of the person under any written law relating to a clinical trial, must take into account matters prescribed under such law (s 6(6))

5. *Disposition of property:
“Where the determination relates to the disposition or settlement of the person’s property … the person’s property is preserved for application towards the costs of the person’s maintenance during the person’s life.” (s 6(7) MCA)

6. P’s subjective views:
“must consider, so far as is reasonably ascertainable” the person’s (a) past and present wishes; (b) beliefs and values; and (c) any other factor he would have considered (s 6(8) MCA)
o “must consider, so far as is reasonably ascertainable (a) the person’s past and present wishes and feelings (and, in particular, any relevant written statement made by the person when the person had capacity); 
o the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence his or her decision if the person had capacity; and 
o the other factors that the person would be likely to consider”

7. Others’ views:
“must take into account, if it is practicable and appropriate to consult them, the views of (a) anyone named by the person to be consulted; (b) anyone engaged in caring for the person; (c) any one of a lasting power of attorney granted; (d) any deputy appointed by the court (s 6(9) MCA)

Acts in connection with care or treatment (s 7 MCA)
Scope of application: If D does an act in connection with P’s care or treatment
s 7 MCA applies if: 
(a) “D takes reasonable steps to establish whether P lacks capacity in relation to the matter in question; and 
(b) when doing the act, D reasonably believes:
(i) that P lacks capacity in relation to the matter; and 
(ii) that it will be in P’s best interests for the act to be done.” (s 7(1) MCA)

Effect: “D does not incur any liability in relation to the act that D would not have incurred if P (a) had had capacity to consent in relation to the matter; and (b) had consented to D’s doing the act.”

Explanation from Code of Practice: 
People with capacity can consent to acts in connection with care and treatment, for example, consenting to have the flu jab or to be washed, if bedridden. In theory, the individuals carrying out the acts of care or treatment on persons who lack capacity may be committing a civil wrong or a criminal offence because they acted without the person’s consent. The Mental Capacity Act ensures that legal protection is given to such individuals if they meet certain conditions.

HOWEVER, LEGAL PROTECTION DOES NOT EXTEND TO ALL ACTS – 
Exemptions from s 7
S 7(3) MCA: “Nothing in this section —
(a)	excludes a person’s civil liability for loss or damage, or the person’s criminal liability, resulting from the person’s negligence in doing the act; 
--> i.e. s 7 does not protect individual from civil or criminal liability for negligent acts or omissions (e.g. doctor being negligent in treating patient)
(b)	affects the operation of the Advance Medical Directive Act 1996;
(c)	applies to the conduct of a clinical trial; or
(d)	applies to the conduct of human biomedical research within the meaning of the Human Biomedical Research Act 2015 or the removal or use of human tissue under that Act.”

* If any of the individuals listed above go against a decision made by a Deputy or Donee of a Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA), they will not receive protection under section 7 (s 8(5) MCA).

* Where restraint has been used by D on P (s 8(1)-(3) MCA):
o If D does an act that is intended to restrain P, it is not an act to which section 7 applies unless 2 further conditions are satisfied: --> if these 2 conditions are not satisfied, then s 7 does not apply and D is not protected
(1) The first condition is that D reasonably believes that it is necessary to do the act in order to prevent harm to P.
(2) The second condition is that the act is a proportionate response to:
(a) the likelihood of P’s suffering harm; and 
(b) the seriousness of that harm.

o S 8(4) MCA: For the purposes of this section, D restrains P if D —
(a) uses, or threatens to use, force to secure the doing of an act which P resists; or
(b) restricts P’s liberty of movement, whether or not P resists.

Payment and expenditure incurred by D for P
* Payment for necessary goods and services (s 9 MCA)
o Obligation: “If necessary goods or services are supplied to a person who lacks capacity to contract for the supply, the person must pay a reasonable price for them.” (s 9(1))
o ““necessary” means suitable to a person’s condition in life and to the person’s actual requirements at the time when the goods or services are supplied.” (s 9(2))

* Expenditure (s 10 MCA)
o Effect:” If an act to which section 7 applies (i.e. D’s act for P’s care and treatment) involves expenditure for necessary goods or services within the meaning of section 9, it is lawful for D to apply money in P’s actual possession for meeting the expenditure.” (s 10(1) MCA)
o (2)  If the expenditure is borne for P by D, it is lawful for D —
o to reimburse himself or herself out of money in P’s actual possession; or
o to be otherwise indemnified by P.
o (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not affect any power under which (apart from those subsections) a person —
o has lawful control of P’s money or other property; and
o has power to spend money for P’s benefit.

Decisions excluded from being authorized by MCA
S 26 MCA: “Nothing in this Act permits a decision on any of the following matters to be made on behalf of a person: E.g. No decisions on behalf on (a) marriage, (b) touching of sexual nature, (e) religion, (f) change of gender, (j) revoking advance medical directive, etc.
(a)	consenting to marriage;
(b)	consenting to touching of a sexual nature;
(c)	consenting to a decree of divorce being granted on the basis of 3 years’ separation;
(d)	consenting to the making of an adoption order under the Adoption of Children Act 1939;
(e)	adopting or renouncing a religion;
(f)	receiving treatment for change of gender;
(g)	consenting or revoking consent to treatment for sexual sterilisation within the meaning of the Voluntary Sterilisation Act 1974;
(h)	consenting or revoking consent to treatment to terminate pregnancy;
(i)	registering or withdrawing an objection under section 8 of the Human Organ Transplant Act 1987 in respect of removal of an organ from the person upon his death;
(j)	making or revoking an advance medical directive under section 3 or 7 of the Advance Medical Directive Act 1996;
(k)	making or revoking a gift of a body or any part thereof under section 3 or 9 of the Medical (Therapy, Education and Research) Act 1972;
(l)	such other matter as may be prescribed.”

S 27 MCA: No authorization to (a) giving of or (b) consent on behalf to “medical treatment for mental disorder” if the treatment is regulated by Mental Health (Care and Treatment) Act
“27.—(1)  Nothing in this Act authorises anyone —
(a)	to give a patient medical treatment for mental disorder; or
(b)	to consent to a patient’s being given medical treatment for mental disorder,
if, at the time when it is proposed to treat the patient, his or her treatment is regulated by the Mental Health (Care and Treatment) Act 2008.
(2)  In this section, “treatment” and “mental disorder” have the meanings given by the Mental Health (Care and Treatment) Act 2008.”

S 28 MCA: Voting rights: “Nothing in this Act permits a decision on voting at an election for any public office, or at a national referendum, to be made on behalf of a person.”

S 29(1) MCA: “nothing in this Act is to be taken to affect the law relating to murder, culpable homicide not amounting to murder or abetment of suicide”

S 29(2) MCA: “nothing in this Act is to be taken to affect the giving, refusing or revoking of consent on behalf of a person who lacks mental capacity by a person who is expressly authorised to do so under (a) the Human Biomedical Research Act 2015; or (b) any written law relating to a clinical trial.”

General powers of the Court (ss 19, 20-23)
Court may exercise these powers upon application, even if there has been no LPA executed or Deputy appointed

Powers:
* S 19 MCA: Power to make declarations as to –
(a) whether a person has or lacks capacity to make a decision specified in the declaration;
(b) whether a person has or lacks capacity to make decisions on the matters described in the declaration; --> i.e. for more general matters
(c) the lawfulness or otherwise of any act done, or yet to be done, in relation to that person.
* S 20 MCA: Powers to make decisions and appoint deputies: general
* S 22 MCA: Section 20 powers: personal welfare
* S 23 MCA: Section 20 powers: property and affairs



*B3: Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA)
* A power of attorney under which the donor (“P”) confers on the donee (or donees) authority to make decisions about: 
(a) P’s personal welfare; 
(b) P’s property and affairs or specified matters concerning the same,
when P no longer has capacity to make such decisions (s 11(1) MCA)

*Creation of LPA 
* Requirements for creation of LPA (s 11(2) MCA): 
(a) compliance with s 12 MCA regarding appointment of donees; 
(b) instrument conferring authority executed in accordance with First Schedule [LPA Form 1 or Form 2]; and
(c) P is above 21 years old and has capacity to execute. --> recall s4 and 5 MCA for test for capacity

* Instrument which does not comply with this section, section 12 or the First Schedule confers no LPA authority (s 11(3) MCA)

(1) Appointment of donees
Who may be donee (s 12(1) MCA): 
(a) where the power relates only to P’s property and affairs: 
i. individual above 21 years old providing service to P without remuneration;
ii. individual who is professional donee and not related to P by blood or marriage; or 
iii. professional donee who is not an individual; and --> this is only available for LPA powers relating to P’s property

(b) in any other case (including personal welfare):
(i) individual above 21 years old providing service to P without remuneration; 
(ii) individual who is professional donee and not related to P by blood or marriage.

S 2(1) MCA: “professional donee” means a person —
(a) who is a professional deputy or is within a class of persons prescribed as qualified to be a professional donee; and
(b) who offers or provides the services of a donee for remuneration.

*Cannot be donee: A person who is an undischarged bankrupt may not be appointed as donee of a lasting power of attorney in relation to P’s property and affairs (s 12(2) MCA) --> so a bankrupt can still be a donee for P’s personal welfare!

Number of donees (s 12(3) MCA): there may be more than 1 donee
* Form 1: maximum 2 donees and 1 replacement donee
* Form 2: no limit to donees

If there is more than one donee, the LPA instrument may appoint the donees to act:
(a) Jointly – i.e. act together and NOT separately (s 12(4)(a) MCA)
* If LPA does not specify whether donees are to act jointly / jointly and severally, it is assumed to appoint the donees to act jointly (s 12(5) MCA)
* A failure by one donee to meet requirements or comply with formalities for an LPA would prevent a LPA from being created (s 12(6) MCA) --> LPA would be invalid
* IF one donee dies / lacks capacity / becomes bankrupt (only for P’s property/affairs) / disclaims the appointment, this terminates the donee’s appointment and revokes the power (s 15(4) subject to s 15(6) MCA) --> LPA becomes invalid in its entirety

(b) Jointly and separately – i.e. act together OR separately (s 12(4)(b) MCA)
* A failure by one donee to meet requirements or comply with formalities for an LPA would NOT prevent a LPA from being created for the other donee(s) who comply (s 12(7) MCA) --> there is some form of severance to keep the LPA alive
* If one donee dies / lacks capacity / becomes bankrupt / disclaims the appointment, this does NOT terminate the appointment of other donee(s) (s 15(6)(b) MCA)

(c) Jointly in respect of some matters and severally in respect of others (s 12(4)(c) MCA)

NB: donee’s bankruptcy only terminates and revokes his Property and affairs powers ONLY, and his authority to act for P’s personal welfare is preserved (s 15(7) MCA).

Replacement of donee: 
Instrument to create LPA 
(a) cannot give any donee the power to appoint a substitute or successor; but 
(b) may itself appoint a replacement donee on occurrence of event in s 15(5)(a)-(d) which terminates donee’s appointment (s 12(8) MCA)

S 12(9) MCA: “To avoid doubt, an instrument used to create a lasting power of attorney —
(a) may itself appoint one or more replacement donees in respect of a particular donee; but
(b) cannot itself appoint a person to replace any replacement donee.”

I.e. LPA instrument itself can name specific substitute donees, and not give any donee the power to appoint a substitute themselves. LPA instrument also cannot appoint a replacement for the replacement donee (only 1 layer of replacement is allowed)

(2) Instrument conferring authority executed in accordance with First Schedule
Forms
* Form 1 (basic form)
o Prescribed format that can be self-filled by donors
o For individuals with straightforward requirements and who wish to grant general LPA powers to their donee(s)
o Only basic conditions / restrictions may be attached to the general powers – exhaustive checklist prescribed in Form 1

* Form 2 (customizable form to be drafted by lawyers)
o Prescribed format that contains text-free spaces for contents to be drafted by solicitors
o For individuals with more detailed requirements and who wish to grant specific LPA powers to their donee(s)
o Individuals should consult their solicitors when making an LPA in Form 2 as powers must be drafted carefully to avoid ambiguity

Procedure for LPA application: either electronic copy through OPGO system or via hardcopies (the exception)
(3a) Electronic copy through OPGO
Instrument must be:
(i) made using electronic transaction system in accordance with section 12A and the First Schedule; and 
(ii) registered in accordance with the First Schedule (s 11(2)(b) MCA)
Prescribed website is the Public Guardian’s website (MCR r 4B)

Steps:
1. (for Form 2) Donor should first consult with solicitors. With donor’s instructions, donor’s solicitors will prepare a draft of LPA Form 2 on OPGO system
2. (for Form 2) Donor login to OPGO via Singpass, review and confirm the contents of the draft, and notify his donee(s)/replacement donees through OPGO
3. (for Form 1) Donor login to OPGO via Singpass, complete fields prescribed in Form 1 and notify his donee(s)/replacement donees through OPGO
4. Donee(s)/replacement donees may then accept their appointment(s) on OGPO system via Singpass
5. If solicitor is Certificate Issuer (CI), to meet with donor to ensure donor has capacity, and take reasonable care to advise and ensure that donor understands the implications of his actions. 
o CI must verify the identity of the donor, and once confirmed, digitally certify and witness the donor’s execution of the LPA using Singpass through OPGO
6. Office of Public Guardian (OPG) will notify the donor to make payment of registration fee if required
7. Mandatory waiting period of 3 weeks (beginning from last date that the OPG notifies the donees that the LPA has been accepted for registration)
8. If no valid objections are received during this 3 weeks, LPA will be registered
9. An LPA application may be withdrawn any time before it is registered by OPG

LPA Form 1LPA Form 2Singapore Citizens$0
(fee of $70 waived until 31 March 2026)$185Singapore PRs$90$230Foreigners$230$275
(3b) Hardcopy application
HARDCOPY EXCEPTION: Public Guardian may do away with electronic transaction system requirement in any one or more of the following circumstances (s 11(2A) MCA):
(a) the donor is unable to make the instrument using the electronic transaction system due to the donor’s physical disability or other circumstance;
(b) the donee is unable to sign the instrument using the electronic transaction system due to the donee’s physical disability or other circumstance;
(c) the electronic transaction system is unavailable;
(d) any other prescribed circumstances.

MCR r 4: “If it is not possible to use the electronic transaction system for this purpose because the donor, the donee or (if there is more than one donee) any donee does not satisfy —
(a)	any of the conditions of access to, or the use of, the electronic transaction system; or
(b)	any of the security and authentication requirements for such access or use”

Steps:
1. (for Form 2) Donor should consult with solicitors, who are to prepare a draft of LPA Form 2 in accordance with donor’s instructions
2. Ensure all boxes are checked and donor has signed on every page
3. Donor and donees’ signatures may be witnessed by a person above 21 years’ old (need not be the CI), and who is NOT the donor or other donees
o **Donees and donor may sign on different days, BUT donee must sign BEFORE the donor (donee first, then donor at the end)
4. Copies of NRIC or passport of donor and all donees are required
5. If solicitor is CI, to meet with donor to ensure donor has capacity, and take reasonable care to advise and ensure that donor understands the implications of his actions. 
o CI must verify the identity of the donor, and once confirmed, to physically sign and affix professional stamp on relevant page of the LPA form
6. All documents to be delivered to OPG within 6 months of signing the form for registration
7. OPG will notify the donor to make payment of registration fee if required
8. Mandatory waiting period of 3 weeks (beginning from last date that the OPG notifies the donees that the LPA has been accepted for registration)
9. If no valid objections are received during this 3 weeks, LPA will be registered
10. An LPA application may be withdrawn any time before it is registered by OPG

FYI – General requirements as to making instruments (MCA First Schedule, Para 1)
“1.—(1)  An instrument is not made in accordance with this Schedule unless —
(a)	subject to paragraph 3 — (i)	it is made using the electronic transaction system and is in the prescribed form provided in the electronic transaction system; or (ii)	in a case where section 11(2A) applies — it is in any of the forms provided at the prescribed website;
(b)	it complies with paragraph 2;
Requirements as to content of instruments
   2.—(1)  The instrument must include —
(a)the information specified in any of the forms mentioned in paragraph 1(1)(a) about the purpose of the instrument and the effect of a lasting power of attorney;(b)a statement by the donor to the effect that the donor —
(i)has read the information mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) (or has had it read to the donor); and(ii)intends the authority conferred under the instrument to mean authority to make decisions on the donor’s behalf in circumstances where the donor no longer has capacity;(c)a statement by the donee (or if there is more than one donee, each of them) to the effect that the donee —
(i)has read the information mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) (or has had it read to the donee); and(ii)understands the duties imposed on a donee of a lasting power of attorney under sections 3 (the principles) and 6 (best interests);(d)a statement by the replacement donee (if any) or if there is more than one replacement donee, each of them, to the effect that the replacement donee —
(i)has read the information mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) (or has had it read to the replacement donee); and(ii)understands the duties imposed on a donee of a lasting power of attorney under sections 3 (the principles) and 6 (best interests);(e)a certificate by a person of a prescribed description that, in the person’s opinion, at the time when the donor executes the instrument —
(i)the donor understands the purpose of the instrument and the scope of the authority conferred under it;(ii)no fraud or undue pressure is being used to induce the donor to create a lasting power of attorney; and(iii)there is nothing else which would prevent a lasting power of attorney from being created by the instrument; and(f)a statement by the person mentioned in sub-paragraph (e) that the person witnessed the donor’s execution of the instrument.
   (2)  The certificate mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(e) may not be given by a person appointed as donee under the instrument.   (c)	the donor executes the instrument in the presence of a witness, who must be a person mentioned in paragraph 2(1)(e), and must attest the donor’s execution of the instrument; and
(d)	all the prescribed requirements in connection with its execution are satisfied.”
MCR r 4C(1): “For the purposes of paragraph 1(1)(d) of the First Schedule to the Act, prescribed requirements in connection with the execution of an instrument are —
(a)where the donor requires any information mentioned in paragraph 2(1)(a) of the First Schedule to the Act to be translated to the donor, the translation must be conducted by the person mentioned in paragraph 2(1)(e) of that Schedule (called in this regulation the witness) or another person (called in this regulation the translator) before the witness;(b)the full name of, and the number of the identity card issued to, each of the following persons under the National Registration Act 1965, or (if no identity card is issued to the person) the number of the person’s passport or other official identification document, must be specified on the instrument:
(i)the donor;(ii)the donee or (if there is more than one donee) every donee;(iii)the replacement donee or (if there is more than one replacement donee) every replacement donee;(iv)the witness;(v)if applicable, the translator;(c)where the instrument is made using the electronic transaction system — the instrument must be executed in accordance with the requirements determined by the Public Guardian under section 10B(4) of the Act; and(d)where the instrument is made using any form at the Public Guardian’s website instead of using the electronic transaction system — the requirements in paragraph (2).MCR r 4C(2)  For the purposes of paragraph (1)(d), the requirements are —
(a)a donee must sign the instrument in the presence of a witness;(b)a replacement donee (if any) must sign the instrument in the presence of a witness;(c)where a translator had translated any information mentioned in paragraph 2(1)(a) of the First Schedule to the Act to a donee or replacement donee, the translator must indicate this fact on the instrument and be the witness mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) or (b), as the case may be;(d)the donor must execute the instrument in accordance with paragraph 1(1)(c) of the First Schedule to the Act;(e)subject to paragraph (1)(a), where a translator had translated any information mentioned in paragraph 2(1)(a) of the First Schedule to the Act to the donor, the translator must indicate this fact on the instrument;(f)after the steps mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) to (e) have been taken, the donor must sign at the end of every page of the instrument; and(g)the donor, a donee or a replacement donee (if any) may not witness any signature required for the instrument.
*(4) Certificate Issuers (MCR r 7)
* Role and duty: assess and certify that the donor understands the purpose of the LPA and scope of authority conferred upon the donees (Para 2(1)(e), Schedule 1 MCA)
o Ensure donor understands the purpose of the instrument and scope of authority conferred under it
o Ensure no fraud or undue pressure is being induced on the donor to create a LPA
o Ensure nothing else would prevent a LPA from being created by the instrument

r 7(1) MCR: “following persons are persons of a prescribed description who may give an LPA Certificate:
(a) a legally qualified medical practitioner who is registered as specialists in psychiatry under the Medical Registration Act (Cap. 174);
(b) a legally qualified medical practitioner who is accredited by the Public Guardian to issue LPA Certificates; and
(c) an advocate and solicitor of the Supreme Court who has in force a practicing certificate under the Legal Profession Act (Cap. 161).”

r 7(2) MCR: “person is disqualified from giving an LPA Certificate in respect of any instrument intended to create a lasting power of attorney if that person is —
(a) a family member of the donor;
(b) a donee of that power; --> i.e. if the lawyer/doctor himself is a donee of the LPA
(c) a donee of any other lasting power of attorney which has been executed by the donor (whether or not it has been revoked);
(d) a family member of a donee within sub-paragraphs (b) and (c);
(e) a director or an employee of a person other than an individual acting as a donee within sub-paragraphs (b) and (c);
(f) a business partner or an employee of — (i) the donor; or (ii) a donee within sub-paragraphs (b) and (c);
(g) an owner, a director, a manager or an employee of any care facility where the donor lives or is cared for when the instrument is executed; or
(h) a family member of a person within sub-paragraph (g).”

NB: “donees” also include replacement donees --> i.e. CI cannot be a replacement donee of a LPA they are certifying
Family member (Reg 2, MCR): 
(a) a spouse of the person?
(b) a child of the person, including an adopted child and a stepchild?
(c) a father or mother of the person?
(d) a father in law or mother in law of the person?
(e) a brother or sister of the person? or
(f) any other individual who is related by blood or marriage and who is living in the same household as the person

NB: brother-in-law and sister-in-law are not included (so can act as CI), but may fall under (f) if they live in the same household

E.g. Lawyer signed as a witness and as a certificate issuer even though he “did not personally witness the Donor’s signature on the Form, nor did he speak to the Donor prior to signing the Form” despite requirements in para 2(1)(e) of First schedule of MCA and was held to have breached ss 83(2)(b) and 83(2)(h) professional duties under Legal Profession Act in LSS v Sum Chong Mun, [15]-[16]
* When in doubt, refer the donor to a psychiatrist
* Should only certify AFTER MEETING donor
* Should not rely on 3Ps to discharge duties – even if you are certain the document was signed by that person, as there is a risk of being cross-examined if a dispute arises

(5) Revocation of LPA
Voluntary revocation by donor:
* When donor has mental capacity, he can revoke the LPA (s 15(2) MCA)
* Procedure: 
o Through OPGO where donor reapplies for a new LPA
o Or via a Revocation of LPA Form, and give written notice to all donees as well as the Public Guardian (Reg 21(1) MCR)
o Revocation fee of $28 applies

Automatic revocation:
* P donor’s bankruptcy revokes the Property and Affairs powers under the LPA only – so any powers for P’s personal welfare persists (s 15(3) MCA) --> once donor becomes bankrupt, cf when donee becomes bankrupt
* Events terminating donee or revoking power (s 15(4)-(5) MCA): 
(a) disclaimer of the appointment by the donee; 
(b) donee dies or loses mental capacity
(c) donee is adjudged bankrupt, only property and affairs powers would be revoked (if an individual) – so donee’s authority relating to P’s personal welfare is preserved (s 15(7) MCA)
(d) donee is in liquidation, winding up, dissolution or under judicial management (if non-individual)
(e) dissolution or annulment of marriage between the donor and donee, unless instrument provides that it does not terminate in such a situation (s 15(8) MCA)

LPA power is not revoked where (s 15(6) MCA):
(a) there is a replacement donee, so terminated donee is replaced under terms of instrument; or 
(b) there is one remaining donee, if he is one of 2 or more persons appointed to act jointly and severally --> but if they were appointed to act jointly, the power is revoked

Protection of donees: 
A donee who does an act that would have been within the scope of the LPA without knowing of its non?existence (if not validly created), revocation or suspension does not incur any liability to P or any other person (s 16(2) MCA), once the instrument purporting to create LPA is registered (s 16(1)(a) MCA)

Protection for third parties dealing with donee and third party purchaser of property in good faith for valuable consideration:
* Third party who deals or otherwise transacts in good faith with the donee, without knowing of the non?existence, revocation or suspension, is entitled to rely on the lasting power of attorney or the power … to the same extent as if the lasting power of attorney … had not been revoked or suspended (s 16(3) MCA)

* S 16(4) MCA: “It is conclusively presumed in favour of a purchaser from a third party who dealt or otherwise transacted with a donee that the dealing or transaction was valid if —
(a) the dealing or transaction was completed within 12 months after the date on which the instrument intending to create a lasting power of attorney was registered; or
(b) the third party makes a statutory declaration, before, on or within 3 months after, the completion of the purchase by the purchaser, that the third party had no reason at the time of the dealing or transaction with the donee to doubt the donee’s authority to deal or transact”

* Presumption of knowledge: “knowledge that a lasting power of attorney or a power under a lasting power of attorney does not exist or has been revoked or suspended includes knowledge of the happening of any event (a) which prevents the lasting power of attorney from being created; or (b) which has the effect of revoking or suspending the lasting power of attorney or the power under the lasting power of attorney.” (s 16(6) MCA)

(6) Activation of LPA
* The LPA is activated or comes into force when the donor loses mental capacity and a medical report by a registered medical practitioner certifies that the donor has lost mental capacity --> this is when a donee is able to transact on P’s behalf
o Donee to use LPA and medical report to transact with 3Ps (banks, insurance companies, other government agencies etc.):
(a) Donee to login to OPGO system and send a copy of the LPA to relevant 3Ps via the OPGO dashboard, and
(b) Present a copy of the medical report certifying the donor’s loss of mental capacity to the relevant 3Ps
o Medical report for activation of LPA is in a prescribed format 
o A person dealing with a donee in matters relating to P’s personal welfare or property may require the donee to produce a certificate from a registered medical practitioner stating that P’s lack of capacity is likely to be permanent, and if the donee fails to produce the certificate, the person may refuse to accept the donee’s authority to make decisions for P in such matters (s 13(10) MCA)

*Powers of donees and restrictions
The authority conferred by a lasting power of attorney is subject to (a) the provisions of this Act (i.e. the MCA) and, in particular, sections 3 (principles) and 6 (best interests); and (b) any conditions or restrictions specified in the instrument.” (s 11(4) MCA)

Personal welfare powers (Section 8.3 Code of Practice):
* Where P will live
* Who P will live with
* Day-to-day care decisions (e.g. what P will eat, drink, wear)
* What social activities to take part in
* Handling P’s correspondence
* Who P may have contact with

Property and affairs powers (Section 8.4 Code of Practice):
* Dealing with property (subject to restrictions under LPA)
* Opening, closing & operating bank accounts
* Making payments for general expenses (e.g. household, medical expenses, rent, loans)
* Receiving payments due to P (e.g. dividends, income, other financial entitlements)
* Handling tax matters
* Purchasing vehicles or other equipment

Restrictions on donees
A donee must NOT make a decision on P’s behalf if donee knows or has reasonable grounds to believe that P has the capacity to make the decision (s 13(1) MCA)

Specific restrictions on personal welfare (s 13(2)-(8) MCA):
* Cannot make decisions on life-sustaining treatment / treatment preventing a serious deterioration in condition
* Cannot do any act to restrain donor (unless donee has authority to do so, it is necessary to prevent harm to donor and it is a proportionate response)

Specific restrictions on property and affairs (s 13(9), 13(9A) & 14 MCA):
* If prohibited by Form 1 LPA, cannot sell property without court order
* Cannot execute will for donor
* Cannot execute or revoke CPF memorandum, CPF nomination or insurance nomination
* Cannot make cash gifts (unless expressly authorised in Form 1)

Restriction on gifts (s 14 MCA): 
* LPA conferring authority to make decisions about P’s property and affairs only authorizes gifts of donor’s property if: --> even if LPA expressly authorises for unlimited gifts
(a) LPA contains express authorization, and
(b) value of the gift must not be unreasonable with regards especially to size of estate and maintenance of person if amount is not specified.
* Donee must also have regard to principle in s 6(7) MCA: where the determination relates to the disposition or settlement of the person’s property, he or she must be motivated by a desire to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that the person’s property is preserved for application towards the costs of the person’s maintenance during the person’s life

NB: settling a trust constitutes a gift --> so air on the side of caution and do NOT settle a trust unless there is an order of court

Decisions excluded from being authorized by s 26 MCA (applies not only to LPA but across the board in MCA) (see above for full list):


*Power of the Court in relation to validity and operation of LPAs
S 17 and 18 MCA apply if: 
(a) P executed or purported to execute an instrument to create an LPA; or 
(b) an instrument has been registered as an LPA conferred by P (s 17(1) MCA)

Court may determine any question relating to:
(a) whether requirements of creating LPA met; 
(b) whether power has been revoked or otherwise come to an end (s 17(2) MCA); or 
(c) relating to “meaning or effect” (s 18(1) MCA)

Court may make orders if (s 17(3) LPA):
(a) fraud or undue pressure was used to induce P to create LPA; 
(b) one of the donees:
i. is convicted of an offence (whenever committed), e.g. criminal misappropriation, criminal breach of trust, cheating, theft or extortion or any other offence involving fraud or dishonesty, whether against P or another person; or
ii. engages or proses to engage in conduct that contravenes the donee’s authority or that is not in P’s best interests, or
(c) one of the professional donees:
i. has its registration as a professional deputy cancelled, or is no longer qualified to be a professional donee, and 
ii. P lacks capacity.

Orders (s 17(4) MCA): Court may 
(a) direct instrument not to be registered; 
(b) revoke instrument or LPA if P lacks capacity to revoke it; or --> court can revoke for any/all of the donees
(c) revoke instrument or LPA “so far as it relates to the donee whose registration as a professional deputy is cancelled” if s 17(3)(c) MCA applies 

S 17(5) MCA: If there is more than one donee, the court may under subsection (4)(b) revoke the instrument or the lasting power of attorney in respect of all or such of the matters to which the lasting power of attorney relates as the court thinks fit, so far as it relates to any of the donees. --> deals with revocation in relation to donees

S 17(6) MCA: The court may under subsection (4)(b) or (c) revoke the instrument or the lasting power of attorney in respect of all or such of the matters to which the lasting power of attorney relates as the court thinks fit. --> deals with revocation of any matter covered under LPA

S 17(7) MCA: The court may make further orders or give directions as the court thinks necessary or expedient for giving effect to, or otherwise in connection with, the revocation of the instrument or the lasting power of attorney.”

Court may provide guidance to donees (s 18(2) MCA): 
(a) give directions with respect to decisions
i. which the donee of a lasting power of attorney has authority to make; and 
ii. which P lacks capacity to make.
(b) give any consent or authorisation to act which the donee would have to obtain from P if P had capacity to give it.

S 18(3) MCA: The court may, if P lacks capacity to do so – 
(a) give directions to the donee with respect to the rendering by the donee of reports or accounts and the production of records kept by the donee for that purpose;
(b) require the donee to supply information or produce documents or things in the donee’s possession as donee;
(c) give directions with respect to the remuneration or expenses of the donee;
(d) relieve the donee wholly or partly from any liability which the donee has or may have incurred on account of a breach of the donee’s duties as donee.”

S 18(4) MCA: “The court may authorise the making of gifts which are not within section 14(3).”


*B4: Deputyship
Deputyship situations apply where there is no valid LPA with any donees and P lacks capacity to make decisions.

*Powers of court
* If P lacks capacity in matters concerning (a) P’s personal welfare or (b) property and affairs (s 20(1) MCA), the court may: 
(a) make orders on decisions on P’s behalf; or 
(b) appoint a deputy (s 20(2) MCA)
o An application can be made to the court for this, but the court can also make orders and appointments on its own accord
o An order of the court may be varied or discharged by a subsequent order (s 20(7) MCA)
o Court’s power to make orders and directions is subject to the restrictions on deputies in s 25 MCA

* Court may appoint deputies for minors (where P is a minor): “if the court considers it likely that P will still lack capacity to make decisions in respect of that matter when P attains the age of 21 years.” (s 21(1) MCA)
o NB: subject  to  Rule  176(A)(3)   FJR  – for  uncontested  application  for specified  matters under FJCPD 61A, P must be at least 18 years old at the time the application is made and every relevant person consents to the application

*Principles the court will take into account
* The powers of the court under this section are subject to the provisions of this Act and, in particular, to sections 3 (principles) and 6 (best interests) (s 20(3) MCA)
* “court may make the order, give the directions or make the appointment on such terms as it considers are in P’s best interests, even though no application is before the court for an order, directions or an appointment on those terms.” (s 20(6) MCA)
* When deciding whether it is in P’s best interests to appoint a deputy, the court must have regard to the principles that (s 20(4) MCA):
a. A decision by the court is to be preferred to the appointment of a deputy to make a decision
b. The powers conferred on a deputy should be as limited in scope and duration as is reasonable practicable

*Requirements of deputies
Who may be deputy (s 24(1) MCA): 
(a) where the power relates only to P’s property and affairs: 
(i) individual above 21 years old providing service without remuneration; 
(ii) individual who is professional deputy and not related to P by blood or marriage; or 
(iii) professional deputy who is not an individual; and 

(b) in any other case (i.e. relates to P’s personal welfare): 
(i) individual above 21 years old providing service without remuneration; or
(ii) individual who is professional deputy and not related to P by blood or marriage 

S 24(2) MCA: The court may appoint an individual as a deputy by appointing the holder for the time being of a specified office or position.

S 24(3) MCA: A person may not be appointed as a deputy without the person’s consent --> i.e. deputy cannot be forced by the court to be a deputy

S 24(4) MCA: 2 or more deputies may be appointed to act: 
(a) jointly; 
(b) jointly and severally; or 
(c) jointly in respect of some matters and jointly and severally in respect of others

S 24(5) MCA: When appointing a deputy, the court may at the same time appoint one or more other persons to succeed the deputy (each called in this Act a successor deputy) —
(a) in such circumstances, or on the happening of such events, as may be specified by the court; and
(b) for such period as may be specified by the court.

Nature of deputy’s power
A deputy is to be treated as P’s agent in relation to anything done or decided by the deputy within the scope of the deputy’s appointment and in accordance with this Part (s 24(7) MCA)

Reimbursement for deputy’s expenses
“A deputy under subsection (1)(a)(i) or (b)(i) is entitled to be reimbursed out of P’s property for the deputy’s reasonable expenses in discharging the deputy’s functions, but is not entitled to remuneration.” (s 24(8) MCA) 
--> where deputy is above 21 years’ old and provide service without remuneration

S 24(9) MCA: A deputy under subsection (1)(a)(ii) or (iii) or (b)(ii) is entitled —
(a) to be reimbursed out of P’s property for the deputy’s reasonable expenses in discharging the deputy’s functions; and
(b) to such remuneration, as the court determines, out of P’s property for discharging the deputy’s functions.
--> where deputy is a professional deputy not related to P, or the professional deputy is not an individual / is a company

Professional deputies
“Any person who intends to offer and provide the services of a deputy for remuneration must register with the Public Guardian as a professional deputy.” (s 25A(1) MCA)
(2)  The Public Guardian may register a person as a professional deputy upon being satisfied that the person meets all the prescribed criteria.
(3)  A professional deputy’s registration under this section may be subject to such terms and conditions as the Public Guardian may specify.
(4)  The Public Guardian may cancel the registration of a professional deputy at the professional deputy’s request or upon the occurrence of any prescribed event.
(5)  Before cancelling a professional deputy’s registration upon the occurrence of any prescribed event, the Public Guardian must give the professional deputy written notice of the intention to cancel the registration.
(6)  The professional deputy may make representations to the Public Guardian within the prescribed period after receiving the notice in subsection (5).
(7)  The Public Guardian must consider any representations made by the professional deputy under subsection (6) before making a decision.
(8)  The Public Guardian must inform the professional deputy in writing of the decision within the prescribed period after the end of the period in subsection (6) for making representations.
(9)  Any person who is aggrieved by the Public Guardian’s refusal to register the person as a professional deputy or cancellation of the person’s registration as a professional deputy may within the prescribed period appeal to the Minister, whose decision is final.
(10)  Where a person’s registration as a professional deputy is cancelled, the Public Guardian must within the prescribed period inform all the following persons of the cancellation:
(a)	where the person has been appointed as a donee in any lasting power of attorney, the donor of the lasting power of attorney;
(b)	the prescribed person or persons, if any.

*Powers of Deputies: court may confer on deputy such powers or duties in s 22 and 23, subject to s 25 restrictions (s 20(5) MCA)
Powers relating to personal welfare include (s 22(1) MCA): 
(a) where P lives; 
(b) P contact with any specified person; 
(c) prohibiting named person from contacting P; 
(d) give or refuse consent to treatment including conduct of clinical trial except for Advance Medical Directive; 
(e) give, refuse or revoke appropriate consent under Human Biomedical Research Act; 
(f) direct that person responsible for health care allow a different person to take over that responsibility

Powers relating to property and affairs include (s 23(1) MCA):
“(a)	the control and management of P’s property;
(b)	the sale, exchange, charging, gift or other disposition of P’s property;
(c)	the acquisition of property in P’s name or on P’s behalf;
(d)	the carrying on, on P’s behalf, of any profession, trade or business;
(e)	the taking of a decision which will have the effect of dissolving a partnership of which P is a member;
(f)	the carrying out of any contract entered into by P;
(g)	the discharge of P’s debts and of any of P’s obligations, whether legally enforceable or not;
(h)	the settlement of any of P’s property by way of trust, whether for P’s benefit or for the benefit of others;
(i)	the making, on P’s behalf, of any nomination under section 132(2) or 133(2) of the Insurance Act 1966;
(j)	where any nomination under section 132(2) or 133(2) of the Insurance Act 1966 has been made by P or on P’s behalf, the revoking, on P’s behalf, of that nomination under section 132(7) or 133(4) (as the case may be) of that Act;
(k)	the execution for P of a will;
(l)	the executing under section 15(6A) or 25(1) of the Central Provident Fund Act 1953, on P’s behalf, of any memorandum under section 25(1) of that Act;
(m)	where any such memorandum has been executed, or any nomination has been made under section 25(1) of that Act, by P or by the court on P’s behalf, the revoking, on P’s behalf, of that memorandum or nomination, as the case may be;
(n)	the maintenance, education, benefit and advancement of P’s spouse, P’s parent, a child of P below 21 years of age or an intellectually disabled child of P;
(o)	the exercise of any power (including a power to consent) vested in P whether beneficially or as trustee under a trust;
(p)	the conduct of legal proceedings in P’s name or on P’s behalf.”

The court may confer on a deputy powers to:
(a) take possession or control of all or any specified part of P’s property; 
(b) exercise all or any specified powers in respect of it, including such powers of investment as the court may determine. (s 24(10) MCA)

The court may require a deputy:
(a) to give to the Public Guardian such security as the court thinks fit for the due discharge of the deputy’s functions; and 
(b) to submit to the Public Guardian such reports at such times or at such intervals as the court may direct. (s 24(11) MCA)

*Restrictions on deputies
“The authority conferred on a deputy is subject to the provisions of this Act and, in particular, sections 3 (principles) and 6 (best interests).” (s 25(5) MCA)

Restrictions on deputies (among a very long list in s 25 MCA): --> these restrictions DO NOT APPLY TO THE COURT
(1) Deputy has NO power to make a decision for P in relation to a matter if the deputy knows or has reasonable grounds to believe that P has capacity in relation to the matter (s 25(1) MCA); 
(2)(a) Deputy has NO power to prohibit a named person from having contact with P (s 25(2)(a) MCA);
(2)(b) Deputy has NO power to direct person responsible for health care to change person responsible (s 25(2)(b) MCA);
(3)(a) Deputy has NO power to dispose and gift P’s property (cf a LPA where it is allowed if explicitly stated) (s 25(3)(a) MCA); …
(3)(b) NO power to make insurance nominations
(3)(d) NO power to execute a will for P
(3)(e) NO power to make CPF nominations, or change a nomination

Continued below:
(3)  A deputy may not be given powers with respect to —
(a)	the disposition of P’s property by making gifts;
(b)	the making, on P’s behalf, of any nomination under section 132(2) or 133(2) of the Insurance Act 1966;
(c)	where any nomination under section 132(2) or 133(2) of the Insurance Act 1966 has been made by P or by the court on P’s behalf, the revoking, on P’s behalf, of that nomination under section 132(7) or 133(4) (as the case may be) of that Act;
(d)	the execution for P of a will;
(e)	the executing under section 15(6A) or 25(1) of the Central Provident Fund Act 1953, on P’s behalf, of any memorandum under section 25(1) of that Act;
(f)	where any such memorandum has been executed, or any nomination has been made under section 25(1) of that Act, by P or by the court on P’s behalf, the revoking, on P’s behalf, of that memorandum or nomination, as the case may be; or
(g)	the carrying out or continuation of —
      (i) life-sustaining treatment on P, whether or not amounting to extraordinary life-sustaining treatment within the meaning of section 2 of the Advance Medical Directive Act 1996; or
      (ii) any other treatment on P which a person providing health care reasonably believes is necessary to prevent a serious deterioration in P’s condition.

(4)  A deputy may not be given power to make a decision on behalf of P which is inconsistent with a decision made by the donee of a lasting power of attorney granted by P (or, if there is more than one donee, by any of them) that is within the scope of the donee’s authority and in accordance with this Act.

(6)  A deputy may not do an act that is intended to restrain P unless 4 conditions are satisfied.
(7)  The first condition is that, in doing the act, the deputy is acting within the scope of an authority expressly conferred on the deputy by the court.
(8)  The second condition is that P lacks, or the deputy reasonably believes that P lacks, capacity in relation to the matter in question.
(9)  The third condition is that the deputy reasonably believes that it is necessary to do the act in order to prevent harm to P.
(10)  The fourth condition is that the act is a proportionate response to —
(a)	the likelihood of P’s suffering harm; or
(b)	the seriousness of that harm.”

Decisions excluded from being authorized by s 26 MCA (applies not only to deputyship but across the board in MCA) (see above for full list):


*Application to court procedure
Summary of documents to be filed in court:
1. OS (Form 217)
2. Supporting Affidavit (Form 218)
3. Doctor’s affidavit exhibiting medical report (Form 224)
4. Consent of relevant persons (Form 221)

Preliminary: does P lack mental capacity in accordance to s 4(1) and s 5(1) MCA?
Can only proceed with application, if P lacks mental capacity.
Preliminary: is Court’s permission needed to commence proceedings?
1. The applicant for deputyship MUST apply to court for permission to commence application for deputyship, UNLESS the applicant is related by blood or marriage to P (r 176(3)(a) FJR)
--> i.e. if applicant is related to P, can skip this preliminary step
--> documents evidencing this relationship must be provided together with the application to be appointed deputy (Para 47(2) FJCPD)

2. No permission is required for an application to the court for the exercise of any of its powers under this Act by:
(a) P (i.e. P himself applies); (b) donee of LPA; (c) deputy; (d) person named in existing order of court; (e) Public Guardian (s 38(1) and 38(2) MCA) 

3. Procedure (Para 48(2) FJCPD):
a. Where permission is required, that prayer may be included in the main application itself
b. The grounds upon which the plaintiff or applicant is relying to obtain such permission must be clearly stated in the supporting affidavit

4. Considerations of the court (s 38(3) MCA):
In deciding whether to grant permission the court is to, in particular, have regard to —
(a) the applicant’s connection with the person to whom the application relates;
(b) the reasons for the application;
(c) the benefit to the person to whom the application relates of the proposed order or directions; and
(d) whether the benefit can be achieved in any other way.

Step 1: Originating summons (now Originating Application under ROC 2021)
Application for deputyship must be filed in the Family Justice Courts (Para 46(1) FJCPD).

Content of Originating Summons
Form 217 to Appendix A, Family Justice Court Practice Directions (“FJCPD”) (Rule 176(1), FJR; Para 54(1)-(6), FJCPD) – Originating Summons must state: -
1. Whether the declaration sought in respect of P’s lack of capacity concerns P’s personal welfare or property & affairs or both;
2. If more than 1 deputy sought, whether they are acting jointly or jointly & severally
3. Powers sought for the deputies, which are drafted appropriately to suit the purpose of the application at hand; and
4. Any other specific orders or reliefs required on the particular facts of each case

Examples of fact-specific powers / orders: - 
* That the Applicant be appointed the litigation representative of P’s minor child 
* That the Applicant be empowered to withdraw DPS (CPF’s Dependants’ Protection Scheme) subsidies / apply to CPF to withdraw such subsidies

Step 2: Supporting Affidavit
* Affidavit to be in the Form 218 OR 219 to Appendix A, FJCPD (Para 54(7)-(8B), FJCPD)
o Form 219 - applications for direct payment of P’s hospital and/or nursing home charges from P’s funds or P’s insurance and where no deputy is to be appointed; 
o Form 218 – all other cases 
o If there is more than one applicant, a single affidavit should be made by all (i.e. they should not file separate supporting affidavits).
--> unless there is a contention, then one camp will file one affidavit while the other camp files another affidavit

Content of Supporting Affidavit (Para 54(7)-(8B), FJCPD)
* The following search results must be exhibited in the supporting affidavit
1. Office of the Public Guardian search result showing if P has registered an LPA; 
2. Office of the Public Guardian search result showing if there is a past Mental Capacity Act or Mental Disorders And Treatment Act Order in respect of P; and 
3. Wills Registry search result showing if P has registered a Will.

* Relevant Persons (if any) (Para 50(7), 51(2), FJCPD)
o The details of all relevant persons who should be served are to be listed clearly in the supporting affidavit. Where service would not be effected on relevant persons who should be served, the reason why this is so must be stated in the supporting affidavit. 
o If relevant persons have given their consent to the application and dispensation of service, this should be stated clearly in the supporting affidavit

Step 3: Doctor’s affidavit & Medical Report: Medical Report (Para 54(9)-(9A), FJCPD)
1. Must distinguish doctor’s own observations and conclusions on examination of P, from conclusions based on information given to him

2. Must contain a clear opinion as to: 
a. Whether P lacks capacity in relation to the matters specified in the application; 
b. P’s prognosis – i.e. whether he is likely to regain capacity

3. NOTE: The originating summons, the supporting affidavit and the doctor’s affidavit exhibiting the medical report must be consistent as to whether P lacks capacity in relation to his personal welfare or his property and affairs or both

4. Must be current – not more than 6 months before the date of application. Should be based on a recent examination of P by the doctor making the report and it should contain sufficient information to justify the doctor’s opinions and conclusions. 

5. Must be exhibited to an affidavit sworn / affirmed by the doctor – Form 224 to Appendix A, FJCPD

Step 4: Consents / Service on Relevant Persons
Service of application on named defendants and relevant persons (Rule 179 FJR and Paragraphs 49 FJCPD) --> need to serve OS, supporting affidavits and notice to relevant persons (Form 222)

Who are “relevant persons” (Para 50(1)-(3), (6), FJCPD): 
* Persons who have an involvement in P’s life and/or who are likely to have an interest in the application

* Often, P’s immediate family members, by virtue of their relationship to P, are likely to have an interest in being notified that an application has been made to the Court concerning P
o Immediate family members often includes – 
o P’s spouse, 
o P’s children (aged 21 and above), 
o P’s parents / guardians, 
o P’s brothers & sisters (aged 21 and above)
NB: there is a presumption that immediate family members are likely to have an interest in the application, but this may be REBUTTED if the applicant is aware of circumstances which reasonably indicate that P’s immediate family should NOT be served (e.g. little to no involvement in P’s life and shown no inclination)

* Persons who are likely to have an interest in the application: 
o any other relatives or friends who have a close relationship with P; 
o any person who has a legal duty to support P; 
o any person who will benefit from P’s estate; and 
o any person who is responsible for P’s care.

* Para 50(9), FJCPD: An organisation providing residential accommodation to P is considered a relevant person

“Relevant persons” must be served with application UNLESS there is a good reason not to or consent is given (Para 49(1), 50(4), 50(5), 50(9) & 51, FJCPD):
* The applicant should serve the application, the supporting affidavits and the Notice to Relevant Person in Form 222 in Appendix A, FJCPD on all relevant persons 
* If P resides at an organisation providing residential accommodation, these documents are to be served as soon as possible and not more than 2 working days after the application is filed
* A good reason not to serve a relevant person – e.g. if they have had little or no involvement in P’s life and has shown no inclination to do so 
* If any relevant person to be served has consented to the application and to dispensation of service, to sign and file Form 221 in Appendix A, FJCPD

Objection by relevant person (Para 53, FJCPD): 
* A relevant person served with an application may object to the whole or part of the application – must apply to Court within 21 days after the date he was served with the application, to be joined as a party
* “Where a relevant person served with an application under rule 179(1) wishes to object to the application or any part of it, he must apply to the Court, within 21 days after the date on which he was served with the application, to be joined as a party to the proceedings.” (r 180(1) FJR)

Other points about application
Notification of person who lacks or is alleged to lack mental capacity (“P”) (Rules 181 and 182 FJR, Paragraph 52 FJCPD)
--> i.e. normally need to serve documents of the deputyship application on P, but can apply for dispensation (reasons for dispensation should go into supporting affidavit) as he likely has lost mental capacity and the documents may upset him

General requirement to notify P of certain matters
  181.—(1)  Subject to paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) and rule 182, P must be notified —
(a)where an application under the Act has been filed or withdrawn, or a date has been fixed for the hearing of the application, of the filing or withdrawal of the application or of the date on which the application will be heard (as the case may be);(b)where a notice of appeal against an order made by the Court under the Act has been filed or withdrawn, or a date has been fixed for the hearing of the appeal, of the filing or withdrawal of the notice of appeal or of the date on which the appeal will be heard (as the case may be);(c)where an order which affects P has been made by the Court under the Act, of the effect of the order; and(d)where the Court directs that P is to be notified, of such matters as the Court may direct.
  (2)  The notification must be effected on P in a manner appropriate to P’s circumstances and in accordance with any practice directions, by —
(a)the plaintiff, applicant or appellant (as the case may be); or(b)such other person as the Court may direct.  
  (3)  Subject to paragraph (4), the notification must be effected on P as soon as practicable, and in any event within 21 days, after the date on which —
(a)the application referred to in paragraph (1)(a), or notice of appeal referred to in paragraph (1)(b), was filed or withdrawn (as the case may be);(b)the person effecting the notification received notice from the Court of the date fixed for the hearing of the application referred to in paragraph (1)(a) or the appeal referred to in paragraph (1)(b) (as the case may be);(c)the order referred to in paragraph (1)(c) was made; or(d)the direction referred to in paragraph (1)(d) was given.  
  (4)  Despite paragraph (3), where P is to be notified that a date has been fixed for the hearing of an application or appeal referred to in paragraph (1), the notification must be effected on P no later than 14 days before the date fixed for the hearing of the application or appeal (as the case may be).
  (5)  The person effecting the notification must, within 8 days after the date on which P was notified under this rule, file a certificate of notification which certifies —
(a)the date on which P was notified; and(b)such other particulars concerning the notification of P as may be specified in any practice directions.  
  (6)  Despite paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) —
(a)the plaintiff, applicant, appellant or other person directed by the Court to effect the notification may apply to the Court for an order to dispense with the requirement to notify P under this rule; and(b)the Court may grant such an order.  
  (7)  Where P is or is made a party to any proceedings under the Act —
(a)paragraphs (1)(a), (b) and (c) and (2) to (6) do not apply or will cease to apply (as the case may be); and(b)if P has a litigation representative3, all documents to be served on P must be served on his litigation representative3.  
  (8)  The Court may on its own motion dispense with the requirement to notify P.  
Matters in respect of which P must be notified
  182.—(1)  Where P is to be notified that an application has been filed, the person effecting the notification must explain to P the following matters:
(a)who the plaintiff or applicant is, with sufficient particulars as to enable P to identify the plaintiff or applicant;(b)that the application raises issues of whether P lacks capacity in relation to one or more matters in the application, and what this means;(c)if the Court were to grant the application, the consequences and effect of the Court’s decision to and on P;(d)where the application is for the appointment of a deputy, the name of the person to be appointed as deputy, with sufficient particulars as to enable P to identify that person;(e)the date on which the application is fixed for hearing.
  (2)  Where P is to be notified that an application has been withdrawn, the person effecting the notification must explain to P the following matters:
(a)that the application has been withdrawn;(b)the consequences of the withdrawal of the application.  
  (3)  Where P is to be notified that a notice of appeal has been filed, the person effecting the notification must explain to P the following matters:
(a)who the appellant is, with sufficient particulars as to enable P to identify the appellant;(b)the issues raised in the appeal;(c)if the Court were to allow or dismiss the appeal, the consequences and effect of the Court’s decision to and on P;(d)the date on which the appeal is fixed for hearing.  
  (4)  Where P is to be notified that a notice of appeal has been withdrawn, the person effecting the notification must explain to P the following matters:
(a)that the notice of appeal has been withdrawn;(b)the consequences of the withdrawal of the notice of appeal.  
  (5)  Where P is to be notified that an order which affects P has been made by the Court, the person effecting the notification must explain to P the effect of the order.
  (6)  The person effecting the notification must also inform P that P may seek legal advice and assistance in relation to any matter of which P is notified.  
Litigation representative for P (Rule 184 FJR, Paragraph 58 FJCPD)
Litigation representative3 for P (r 184 FJR)
  184.—(1)  Subject to paragraph (2), if P is or is made a party to any proceedings under the Act, P must have a litigation representative3 for those proceedings.
  (2)  The Court may, on its own motion or on the application of any person (including P), permit P to conduct any proceedings under the Act without a litigation representative3, if the Court is of the opinion that P does not lack capacity to conduct those proceedings himself (regardless of whether P lacks capacity in relation to the matter or matters to which the proceedings relate).
  (3)  Subject to paragraph (4), if there is a deputy appointed or deemed to be appointed by the Court under the Act, or a donee under a lasting power of attorney registered under the Act, with power in relation to P for the purposes of the Act, who is given power to conduct legal proceedings in P’s name or on P’s behalf, the deputy or donee (as the case may be) shall be P’s litigation representative3.
  (4)  Paragraph (3) does not apply in relation to any proceedings under the Act in which the deputy or donee (as the case may be) is a party in his own capacity.
  (5)  If there is no deputy or donee referred to in paragraph (3), or if paragraph (4) applies, the Court must appoint as a litigation representative3 for P —
(a)any person who applies to be the litigation representative3, and whom the Court is satisfied —
(i)is competent and willing to conduct proceedings on P’s behalf; and(ii)has no interests adverse to those of P; or(b)if there is no such person —
(i)in any case where the proceedings relate solely to P’s personal welfare, the Director-General of Social Welfare;
[S 523/2020 wef 01/07/2020](ii)in any case where the proceedings relate solely to P’s property and affairs, the Public Trustee; or(iii)in any case where the proceedings relate both to P’s personal welfare and to P’s property and affairs, either the Director-General of Social Welfare acting alone, or both the Director-General of Social Welfare and the Public Trustee acting together, as the Court deems appropriate.
[S 523/2020 wef 01/07/2020]  
  (6)  A person may be appointed under paragraph (5) as a litigation representative3 for P for all or any proceedings under the Act.
  (7)  The Court may, either on its own motion or on any person’s application make an order for one or more of the following matters:
(a)to discharge or terminate the appointment of a litigation representative3;(b)to appoint a new litigation representative3 in place of an existing litigation representative3;(c)that a person must not act as a litigation representative3 for P in those proceedings.  
  (8)  Practice directions may make additional or different provisions in relation to litigation representatives3.  
FJCPD para 58
“58. Litigation Representative in mental capacity proceedings
(1) Where P is a party to any mental capacity proceedings with a litigation representative, P should be referred to in the proceedings as “P (by A.B., his litigation representative)”.
(2) The application to be the litigation representative of P shall be in Form 4 in Appendix A to these Practice Directions. The supporting affidavit must satisfy the Court of the matters set out in rule 184(5)(a) of the Family Justice Rules.
(3) Under rule 184(2) of the Family Justice Rules, the Court may, on its own motion or on the application of any person (including P), permit P to conduct any mental capacity proceedings without a litigation representative. An application made to permit P to conduct mental capacity proceedings without a litigation representative must be supported by a medical report stating that P does not lack capacity to conduct proceedings himself.
(4) The Court may either on its own motion, or on the application of any person –
(a) direct that a person may not act as litigation representative;
(b) terminate a litigation representative’s appointment, or
(c) appoint a new litigation representative in place of an existing one.
(5) An application for any of the orders referred to in sub-paragraph (4) must be supported by affidavit. If the order sought is the substitution of a new litigation representative for an existing one, the evidence must satisfy the Court of the matters set out in rule 184(5)(a) of the Family Justice Rules.”

Third party intervention
* “under r 178(2) of the FJR, the court has a broad discretion to order that a person be joined as a party to proceedings under the MCA. … the court should consider the advantages and disadvantages of joinder on the facts of the case at hand to determine whether joinder is “desirable”” (TWD v UQE, [56])
* “it is not strictly necessary that joinder would aid the court in dealing with that application. The advantages of joinder must simply outweigh its disadvantages for joinder to be ordered.” (TWD v UQE, [56])

Vesting of property in person appointed outside Singapore (Section 23(4) read with Paragraph 7 of the Second Schedule to the MCA) 
Vesting of property in person appointed outside Singapore
   7.—(1)  Sub-paragraph (2) applies if the court is satisfied —
(a)that under the law prevailing in a place outside Singapore a person (“M”) has been appointed to exercise powers in respect of the property or affairs of P on the ground (however formulated) that P lacks capacity to make decisions with respect to the management and administration of P’s property and affairs; and(b)that, having regard to the nature of the appointment and to the circumstances of the case, it is expedient that the court should exercise its powers under this paragraph.
   (2)  The court may direct —
(a)any property situated in Singapore standing in the name of P; or(b)any stocks standing in the name of P or the right to receive dividends from such stocks,
to be transferred into M’s name or otherwise dealt with as required by M, and may give such directions as the court thinks fit for dealing with accrued dividends from the stocks.   
   (3)  In sub-paragraph (2), “stocks” includes —
(a)shares; and(b)any funds, annuity or security transferable in the books kept by any body corporate or unincorporated company or society or by an instrument of transfer either alone or accompanied by other formalities,
and “dividends” is to be construed accordingly.      
Costs of proceeding (r 190(1) FJR)
“The costs of proceedings under the Act shall be paid by P or charged to his estate, unless the Court otherwise directs.” 


C. Trusts and family offices (Non-examinable)
Trust as a Succession Planning Tool 


Trust Structure 
Key features 
Legal vs beneficial ownership 
Revocable vs irrevocable 
Note: limited asset protection in revocable trusts(Tasarruf Mevduati Sigorta Fonu v Merrill Lynch Bank and Trust Company (Cayman) Ltd [2011] 4 All ER 704) 
Fixed vs discretionary 
Perpetuity period (s 89 TA, s 32 CLA)
Trust parties
Settlor(s) 
Reserved powers trust: Allowed by s 90(5) Trustees Act; “No trust or settlement of any property on trust is invalid by reason only of the person creating the trust or making the settlement reserving to the person all or any powers of investment or asset management functions under the trust or settlement.” (s 90(5) Trustees Act) 
Trustee 
Individual 
Institutional: regulation of “trust business” under the TCA 
Private Trust Companies: licensing exemption for PTCs under the Trust Companies (Exemption) Regulations 2005 
Beneficiaries 
Protectors 
Investment Manager
Trust assets 
Bankable assets 
Shares 
Real estate 
Prohibition on acquisition of residential property by foreign persons; Section 3 RPA 
Additional Buyer’s Stamp Duty for acquisition by entities
Additional Buyer’s Stamp Duty for residential properties transferred into a “living trust” 
Additional Conveyance Duties for Trust
Operating businesses 
Insurance 
Other luxury assets, e.g., art, watches, wine, cars, yachts, etc. 
Trust documents 
Trust Deed 
Discretionary trust
Reserved powers trust
Letter of Wishes: non-binding expression of wishes by settlor 
Reporting requirements (non-examinable)
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act
Common Reporting Standard
Objectives of trust
Assets
Business continuity
Asset consolidation 
Asset protection 
Probate avoidance 
Family and succession/legacy planning 
Planning for Settlor’s aging and unexpected incapacitation 
Provision for minors and dependents 
Controlled giving 
Provision for other objectives and causes, e.g., philanthropy, research, entrepreneurship, etc. 
Tax planning (non-examinable)
Tax transparency
Locally Administered Trust: exempt from tax (s 13N Income Tax Act)
Foreign Trust: exempt from tax (s 13F ITA, and Income Tax (Exemption of Income for Foreign Trusts) Regulations 1994)
Firewall provisions; e.g. trust is valid despite Muslim inheritance laws (Shafeeg)
Validity of trusts
Sham trusts; Test: common intention to mislead third parties to the trust at time of trust creation (Lau Sheng Jan Alistair)
Illegal trusts; Test: “applicable principles in the modified Ochroid Trading framework as applied in the trusts context should be as follows” (Lau Sheng Jan Alistair, [80]-[81])
Stage one: “whether the trust in question is illegal in itself and therefore void and unenforceable; 
a trust is illegal in itself when it is expressly or impliedly prohibited by statute or falls within an established category of situations that renders it void and unenforceable.”
Stage two: “if the trust is not illegal in itself, the court should then consider whether the trust concerned is created for an illegal purpose, or which arose as an incidental consequence of the illegal purpose. If so, the proportionality analysis applies to determine a proportionate response to the illegality, and the factors to be considered include 
(i) whether allowing the claim would undermine the purpose of the prohibiting rule; 
(ii) the nature and gravity of the illegality; 
(iii) the remoteness or centrality of the illegality to the trust; 
(iv) the object, intent, and conduct of the parties; and 
(v) the consequences of denying the claim.”
Stage three: “if the court decides that the trust was created for an illegal purpose and should not be enforceable, the court may consider if the party seeking to enforce the trust in question can nonetheless establish an alternative basis for enforcing a proprietary interest by the operation of trusts law, 
such as by a resulting trust if his claim to enforce an express trust fails because the express trust is found to be unenforceable. 
In considering this, the court should apply the principle of stultification to determine if, in allowing the claim, the fundamental policy that prohibited the trust in question in the first place would be undermined.”
Ineffectual settlement of assets into trust and retention of beneficial ownership (Zhang Lan, [86]-[87])
Insolvency clawback provisions (Non-examinable)
Note: Trusts usually settled at undervalue, consider if IRDA provisions could apply.
Personal representatives’ powers and duties
Duty to call in assets of deceased
Duty to settle the lawful debts of the deceased, which include all reasonable  testamentary and other expenses as well as proper funeral expenses (67 PAA)
Duty to account to beneficiaries (Lakshmi Prataprai Bhojwani v Moti Harkishindas Bhojwani [2019] 3 SLR 356 at [29])
Duty to distribute assets of deceased (Lim Heng How v Lim Meu Beo [2020] 4 SLR 1217)
Personal representatives may apply to the Family Justice Courts for directions (Division 53 FJR)
the court may determine questions concerning the  duties of the executors or the rights and interests of creditors and beneficiaries but the court cannot make choices for executors (ADP v ADT [2014] 3 SLR 904)
Court has “the power to order a sale of the Property, and to make all necessary and consequential directions to effect its sale, including an order for its occupants to deliver vacant possession” pursuant to FJR r 540 (UJT v UJR [2018] 4 SLR 931, [94])
Trustee’s duties and powers
Irreducible core of trustees’ duty (Armitage v Nurse [1998] Ch 241 at 253–254; Lalwani Ashok Bherumal v Lalwani Shalini Gobind [2019] 4 SLR 1304 at [38])
Keep account of trusts and allow beneficiaries to inspect (Ong Wui Swoon v Ong Wui Teck [2013] 1 SLR 733; Lakshmi Prataprai Bhojwani (alias Mrs Lakshmi Jethanand Bhojwani) v Moti Harkishindas Bhojwani [2019] 3 SLR 356)
Statutory duty of care (S 3A TA)
Common law duty of care (Ng Eng Chee v Mamata Kapildev Dave [2009] 3 SLR(R) 109 at [153])
Generally
(i) Sections 33, 34 and Part III TA
(ii) Foo Jee Seng v Foo Jhee Tuang [2012] 4 SLR 339
(iii) Chiang Shirley v Chiang Dong Pheng [2015] 3 SLR 770
(iv) Section 35(1) and (2) CLPA
Beneficiaries’ rights and entitlements 
Entitlement to trust documents and Information
Schmidt v Rosewood Trust Ltd [2003] UKPC 26 
Breakspear v Ackland [2008] EWHC 220 (Ch) 
Chiang Shirley v Chiang Dong Pheng [2015] 3 SLR 770 at [27]–[41]
Beneficiaries’ interests under discretionary trusts
Lakshmi Prataprai Bhojwani (alias Mrs Lakshmi Jethanand Bhojwani) v Moti Harkishindas Bhojwani [2019] 3 SLR 356 at [30]–[33]
The rule in Saunders v Vautier (1841) 4 Beav 115
Anti-Bartlett clause: exclude certain trustee duties, e.g. being involved with decision-making by companies whose shares are held on trust
E.g. Anti-Bartlett provisions in Bidzina v Credit Suisse Trust
No duty to exercise any control, interfere in or become in the administration management and conduct of underlying company
Trustee shall leave the administration management and conduct of the business and affairs of the underlying company to is directors unless Trustee have knowledge of dishonesty
Trustee shall assume that the business of the underlying company was being carried out competently honestly diligently and in the best interests of shareholders; no duty on Trustee to ascertain whether assumption was correct
Trustee not liable for any loss to Trust Fund or underlying company
No duty to obtain information regarding underlying company and if received shall assume such information to be accurate and truthful
Exercise of trustee’s discretion
Proper exercise of Trustee’s discretion
Foo Jee Seng v Foo Jhee Tuang [2012] 4 SLR 339 at [52]–[63]
Letter of Wishes
Tao Soh Ngun (also known as Lo To Li Kwan Or Lo To Lee Kwan) v HSBC International Trustee Ltd [2019] HKCFI 1268 at [13]–[30], [31], [63]–[64], and [182]–[183].
Guidance for trustee’s decisions
Beddoe Orders and Administration Actions
Section 56 TA
Division 53 FJR
Re Beddoe [1893] 1 Ch 547
Wong Meng Cheong v Ling Ai Wah [2012] 1 SLR 549
Protectors
Definition: Trust protector can be defined as a person who, other than the trustee, is the  holder of an office created by the terms of the trust, and is authorised or required  to play a part in the administration of the trust
Nature of duty
In the Matter of The H Trust [2019] SC (Bda) 27 Com
Von Knieriem v Bermuda Trust Co Ltd [1994] Bda LR 50
Tey Tsun Hang, “Trust Protector” (2008) 20 SAcLJ 99
Exercising Consent Powers under the Trust
Narrow view: In the Matter of the X Trusts [2023] CA (Bda) 4 Civ (Bermuda Court of Appeal) at [20], [26]–[27], [84]–[94], and [161]–[165]
Wide view: In the matter of The Piedmont Trust and the Riviera Trust [2021] JRC  248
Trustee’s power of advertisement in the newspaper or government gazette inviting claims from any beneficiaries or creditors
Section 29 TA
Oh Chun Moy v Oh Bee Bee [2012] 1 SLR 105
Family Offices
Main purpose: provide investing services
Others
Legal, tax and accounting
Philanthropy
Concierge services: e.g. assist with booking of trips
Definition of a family office
(i) Structure of a family office: Fund Vehicle and Fund Management Company
Held directly by family

Held under trust structure

(ii) Single Family Office (“SFO”): serves only one family
(iii) Multi Family Office: supports multiple family clients
Capital markets services licensing exemption for SFOs
(a) Section 82(1) Securities and Futures Act 2001
(b) Second Schedule to the Securities and Futures (Licensing and Conduct of Business) 
Regulations 2002
Tax exemptions for family offices
(a) Offshore Fund Exemption Scheme; Section 13D ITA
(b) Resident Fund Exemption Scheme; Section 13O ITA
(c) Enhanced-Tier Fund Exemption Scheme; Section 13U ITA

Global Investment Programme
Immigration Program – PR for applicant and immediate family

Family Governance
What: system of processes and structures for families to organize themselves and guide their relationship with their family business(es)
Objectives of family governance
Direction for the family
Control, decision-making and involvement of the family
Accountability and transparency
Protect family legacy and provide for continuity and longevity of family business over successive generations
Family governance tools
Shareholders’ agreement
Different classes of shares / voting rights
Family constitution
Dispute resolution
Exit options and non-contest clauses


Yong De Wei for Part B 2023

1


