






Banking & Fundraising

2023 Part B Course
Asher Lee Jia Hern


1 
BANK LENDING
1.1 Introduction to corporate financing
1. Why raise finance?
a) Companies need finance to fund
i) Working capital
ii) Capital expenditure (capex) – investments, acquisitions.
b) Working capital – funds used in day-to-day operations.
c) Capex – funds used to acquire, upgrade and maintain physical assets such as property, buildings or equipment.

2. What influences a company’s choice of finance? (FYI)
a) Various factors: 
i) credit quality, 
ii) industry of company, 
iii) tax, 
iv) available sources and market conditions,
v) need for flexibility,
vi) pricing.

3. Types of financing 
a) Private
i) Equity – subscriptions from private investors (e.g., VC) 
ii) Debt – borrowing from banks or other corporates (e.g., term loan) – bilateral loan agreements
b) Public
i) Equity – offer of shares to the public or existing shareholders (e.g., IPO)
ii) Debt – issue of debt instruments (e.g., notes or bonds)
c) Other types will be covered in other lectures.

4. Features of Bank Lending
a) Characterisation – 
i) loans (debt financing) are accounted for as a liability.
ii) subscriptions for shares (equity financing) are accounted as capital i.e., an asset.
b) How returned or realized.
i) Loans must be repaid eventually, usually at a contractual date, or on demand.
ii) Share capital not generally returned to investors in the ordinary course (unless they sell their shares). In specific situations, companies may buy back shares from shareholders and thus return capital to them.
c) Maturity Date
d) Returns
i) Loans – interest payments on a fixed schedule to the lender. Interest accrues and payment made as contractually specified.
ii) Shares – dividends may be declared if the company is profitable. 
e) Increase in Value
i) Loans – rarely, secondary loan market is not that big.
ii) Shares – holders can sell their shares for profit (in addition to any dividends received).
f) Treatment in insolvency
i) Loans – secured creditors take first, then unsecured creditors share in the remaining pool of assets together.
ii) Shares – last in priority after all creditors (and will be done pro rata of the remaining pool)



1.2 Types of bank lending
5. Types of bank lending
a) 3 parameters/categories that can vary:
i) Number of lenders
ii) Duration of the loan
iii) Security

6. Number of lenders
a) Single lender – bilateral loan. Single source lends to the company. 
i) Though “bilateral”, may have other parties such as guarantors, security providers.
ii) Smaller loans such as term loans can be bilateral.
b) Multiple lenders – syndicated/club loan. 
i) Club loan is just less people than syndicated.
ii) Usually larger loans, as too risky for any single bank to take whole risk.
iii) Each lender provides a proportion of the loan on a several basis. (cf joint and several)
iv) All lenders deal under the same terms in one loan/facility agreement.
v) Borrower deals with the lenders as a group through the facility agent.
vi) If security is taken, it is given in favour of facility agent on behalf of all lenders.

7. Duration of the loan – actual duration of the loan, as well as the repayment mechanics. 
a) Fixed term facility
i) Lender commits to lend specified amount of money for a specified amount of time, from the date of drawdown to the end of the tenure of the loan.
ii) Loan may be repaid at the end of the term, or in instalments.
iii) Terms is typically, 1-5 years. 
iv) Specified availability period – e.g. up to 3 months
(1) Specified time in which the borrower can drawdown the loan from the lender. This is the case when the loan is borrowed in one lump sum.
(2) If not one lump sum, there may be multiple drawdowns across the period, so there may be a longer availability period, or multiple availability periods for each tranche of the loan.
(3) Borrower pays *commitment fees (a percentage) to the lender for the committed amount in the availability period. This is paid in respect of the committed undrawn amounts during that period – to compensate the lender for setting aside funds for the borrower, and cannot charge interest yet.

v) Prepayments (early repayment)
(1) May or may not be permitted; if so, there will be a prepayment fee.
(2) Prepaid amounts will not be allowed to be re-borrowed.

b) Revolving facility
i) Facility that specified maximum borrowed amount over an agreed period.
ii) Availability period generally extends over the entire life of the loan.
iii) Borrower can borrow and repay tranches as and when during the loan period.
iv) Borrower can borrow one tranche at a certain rate in one interest period, then:
(1) At the end of that tranche, decide to repay that tranche, or
(2) Roll over that tranche into the next interest period.
v) Borrower must give bank drawdown notice, and specify chosen interest period.
vi) If there is prepayment/early repayment, repaid amounts are available for re-borrowing (cf fixed term facility where prepaid amounts CANNOT be re-borrowed).

8. Security – more detail later.
a) For large sums, lenders may require a comprehensive security and guarantee package from borrower, and material subsidiaries of the borrower.



1.3 Overview of a Facility Agreement
9. Four broad categories of clauses
a) Mechanics – 
i) Drawdown (how the loan is drawn) and conditions precedent.
ii) Repayment and prepayment.
b) Costs of utilisation – interest and fees.
c) General protection for lenders
i) Covenants 
ii) Events of default (which allow lender bank to terminate and accelerate the loan)
d) “Boilerplate”
i) Agency and other protective provisions.

10. Mechanics
a) Conditions Precedent (for a drawdown)
i) There is generally a gap in time between signing of loan agreement and drawdown of credit by borrower (triggered by borrower giving lender a drawdown notice).
ii) Decision to lend is based on lender’s examination of borrower’s creditworthiness. Important for lender that the loan is repaid. 
iii) Drawdown occurs by borrower giving lender a drawdown notice. When lender receives drawdown notice, they will check for satisfaction of conditions precedents. If CPs are satisfied, lenders are obligated to lend.
iv) Thus, conditions precedent exist to:
(1) Confirm various assumptions about the borrower – factual, legal, financial.
(2) Must be satisfied before the lender is obligated to advance the loan.
v) Typical conditions precedent
(1) Power of the borrower
(2) Authorisation of signatories
(3) Accounting information
(4) Security documents
(5) Legal opinions
(6) Confirmations by borrower that its representations in facility agreement remain accurate.
(7) Material Adverse Change to borrower
(8) No existing events of default and none would result from borrowing.
b) Repayment and prepayment
i) Repayment – by specified date (according to a schedule) or dates or on demand.
ii) Prepayment (early repayment) – usually allowed, but prepayment fee payable.
(1) Lender needs compensation for loss of future interest on prepaid amount.
(2) By default, no right of prepayment unless there is such a clause.
 
11. Costs of utilisation
a) Interest
i) 3 elements (aggregate) – 
(1) Basic rate (cost to lender of acquiring funds) + 
(2) Margin (lender’s profit) + 
(3) Associated or mandatory costs rate (cost of lender for complying with banking regulations)
ii) Interest on amounts borrowed but not yet repaid accrue at an interest rate fixed at the beginning of specified periods of time, e.g., 1, 3, 6 months.
iii) Generally become payable at the end of these interest periods.
b) Default Interest
i) Interest accrues at an agreed higher rate upon occurrence of some events.
ii) Usually when it entitled lender to demand early repayment.
iii) But subject to penalty rule – may be unenforceable.
c) Other fees
i) Commitment fees
ii) Prepayment fees

12. General Protection – 
a) Customary representations & warranties (R&W) by the borrower
i) Legal representations 
(1) Status, binding obligations 
(2) No conflict with other obligations 
(3) Power and authority 
(4) Validity and admissibility in evidence 
(5) Governing law and Enforcement 
(6) Deduction of tax 
(7) No filing or stamp taxes 
(8) Pari passu ranking
ii) Information representations
(1) No default 
(2) No misleading information 
(3) Financial statements 
(4) No proceedings pending or threatened 
(5) Authorised signatures
iii) State of borrower’s business
(1) Insolvency 
(2) No breach of laws 
(3) No breach of Environmental Laws 
(4) Taxation 
(5) Holding and dormant companies 
(6) Security and Financial Indebtedness
iv) Security/credit support
(1) Ranking
(2) Good title to assets, legal and beneficial ownership.

b) Effect of breach of R&W
i) Usually lender can stop lending, demand repayment of borrowed monies.

c) Covenants aka undertakings by borrower
i) Definition – promise by borrower to do something (positive covenants) or refrain from doing something (negative covenants).
ii) Purpose – protect lender’s position through the duration of the facility.
(1) Ensure that the financial condition, business, and assets of the borrower remain in certain pre-agreed limits that the lender has set, which form the basis of the credit assessment.
iii) Sometimes called “undertakings”.
iv) 3 categories
(1) General covenants – commercial, protection of assets. E.g., 
(a) ranking of borrower’s agreement under FA; 
(b) restriction on borrower making further acquisitions, investments, capital expenditures; 
(c) restriction on disposal of assets;
(d) restrictions on borrower making dividends (until facility has been repaid); 
(e) negative pledge (restriction on further creation of securities); 
(i) restriction on transactions and rights that are similar to granting security, such as sale-and-leaseback, factoring, rights of set-off, etc.
(f) restrictions on incurring contingent liabilities; 
(g) restrictions on changes in nature of borrower’s business; 
(h) restriction on incurring further indebtedness.
(2) Financial covenants.
(a) Tests that are prescribed to assess whether the performance of the borrower’s business lives up to financial projections used when borrowing (e.g. tests of liquidity, financial strength, cashflow, ability to service debt).
(b) Require borrower to carry out calculations throughout the life of the facility, same time as when financials are prepared, which will be provided to the lender as an indication of the borrower’s financial health.
(3) Information covenants.
(a) Usually regarding accounting information to be supplied regularly.

d) Events of default (EOD)
i) Effect of EODs
(1) Entitles lender to demand immediate repayment of outstanding loan.
(2) Enforce security if repayment not forthcoming.
(3) Outstanding loans become repayable on demand.
(4) Allow lender to cancel undrawn commitments.
ii) Customary EODs – breaches of borrower’s covenants, etc.
(1) Non-payment (with a grace period) 
(2) Financial covenants 
(3) Other obligations (including information undertakings) 
(4) Misrepresentation 
(5) Cross default/Cross acceleration 
(a) Where other lenders of the borrower have triggered EODs or acceleration obligations against the borrower under their separate loan facilities.
(6) Insolvency/Insolvency Proceedings/Creditors’ Process/Judicial Management 
(7) Ownership of the Obligors 
(8) Unlawfulness 	
(9) Repudiation 
(10) Moratorium on External Indebtedness 
(11) Cessation of business
iii) Remedying Breaches
(1) Breaches of conditions and representations are generally EODs.
(2) But borrower given chance to remedy breach if remediable. Will become an EOD if they fail to remedy within the specified grace period. Usually, it is specified which obligations are remediable.

13. “Boilerplate”
a) Assignment/transfer of Loans 
b) Amendments and waivers 
c) Payment Mechanics 
d) Set-off 
e) Notices 
f) Partial Invalidity 
g) Counterparts 
h) Governing Law 
i) Jurisdiction 
j) Arbitration

1.4 Taking Security
14.  Reasons for taking security – Protection in the event of the borrower’s insolvency.
a) Enforcement of the security 
b) Proceeds of the sale of the security is paid to the lender (excess sale proceeds will be returned to borrower)
c) If insufficient, lender will compete with the unsecured creditors for the remainder.

15. Types of Security – 3 main types in common law world.
a) Mortgage – Not much difference.
i) Legal mortgage – transfer of legal title, on the condition that the mortgagor (lender) will transfer it back on discharge of the debt. Debtor (mortgagee/borrower) usually retains possession of the asset. Creditor receive legal title, Debtor retains equity of redemption.
ii) Equitable mortgage – no transfer of legal title. Debtor retains legal title, transfers the equitable/beneficial interest to creditor for security. Creditor receives an equitable proprietary interest.
b) Charge – 
i) Characteristics
(1) an obligation owed by the chargor (borrower) to chargee (lender), 
(2) under which the particular assets of the chargor (borrower) can be appropriated by the chargee (lender) in satisfaction of a debt owed to it by the chargor.  
(3) Charge is an encumbrance over the assets of the borrower
(4) Confers the chargee an equitable proprietary interest over the assets, gives them the right to have the proceeds of sale applied towards satisfaction of the debt.
(5) Does not confer full right of possession.
ii) Fixed Charge
(1) Attaches immediately to charged assets.
(2) Assets must be able of being ascertained and definite. 
(3) Important for the assets to be identified as precisely as possible 
(4) RIGHTS OF CHARGEE: Grant of fixed charge usually also comes with the following rights:
(a) Prevent chargor (borrower) from disposing of the asset without chargee’s (lender’s) consent.
(b) Sell asset if chargor fails to pay on the secured liabilities.
(c) Require chargor to maintain asset while it remains with chargor
(d) Claim proceeds of sale of the asset in priority to other creditors.
(e) Though chargor (borrower) retains possession of asset up front, chargee (lender) can take possession on event of default.
iii) Floating Charge
(1) Over a floating pool of assets, a class of assets present and future belonging to the chargor (borrower). Class of assets may fluctuate from time to time. 
(2) Floating charge contemplates that until a future step is taken by or on behalf of the chargees (lenders), the chargor will carry on its business in the ordinary way in relation to the charged assets including disposing of some charged assets as required.
(3) On event of default, floating charge crystallises into fixed charge.
(a) Then, the chargor’s (borrower’s) ability to deal with the charged assets is restricted. 
c) Pledge – not common, usually in trade finance.

16. Perfecting the security
a) Means the mandatory steps to be taken for the security to be valid against debtor creditors.
b) Usually involves registering the security in a specialist register.
i) E.g., Land – Singapore Land Authority (SLA), IP – Intellectual Property Office of Singapore (IPOS), Ships – Maritime Port Authority of Singapore (MPA).
c) Companies must register security with ACRA.
i) CA s 131 – *Any security the company creates must be registered with ACRA within 30 days; else it may be void against the liquidator or other creditors of the company. 
ii) This applies to (s 131(3)):
(a)	a charge to secure any issue of debentures;
(b)	a charge on uncalled share capital of a company;
(c)	a charge on shares of a subsidiary of a company which are owned by the company;
(d)	a charge created or evidenced by an instrument which if executed by an individual, would require registration as a bill of sale;
(e)	a charge on land wherever situate or any interest therein but not including any charge for any rent or other periodical sum issuing out of land;
(f)	a charge on book debts of the company;
(g)	a floating charge on the undertaking or property of a company;
(h)	a charge on calls made but not paid;
(i)	a charge on a ship or aircraft or any share in a ship or aircraft;
(j)	a charge on goodwill, on a patent or a licence under a patent, on a trade mark or a licence to use a trademark, or on a copyright or a licence under a copyright or on a registered design or a licence to use a registered design. 
 
1.5 Key points from readings 
17. Not comprehensive, will only highlight notable points not covered in the lecture.
1.5.1 Methods of Raising Debt Finance
18. Debt securities (more in lesson 2)
a) Types: Bonds, Medium Term Notes (see lesson 2), and commercial paper – like bonds but with maturity of less than 1 year.
b) Can be traded between investors in the capital markets.

19. Bank loans
a) Are tailored to the borrower’s needs, can take many forms.
b) Other than term loan (loan repayable by end of a set period of time) and revolving facilities (where borrower can re-borrow amounts it has already repaid), there can also be overdrafts where the amount borrowed is re-payable on demand.
c) Advantages of syndicated loans (loan from a group of banks), cf debt securities (i.e. bonds)
i) Flexibility in amount borrowed. Borrower can draw down as and when needed. Sometimes, they are set up as a committed source of funds for use in contingencies, may not be drawn on at all.
ii) Flexibility in amount repaid. Repayment can be in instalments, or revolving, or in a lump sum at maturity (“bullet repayment”) with regular interest payments.
iii) Flexibility in currency. More common for syndicated loans to offer a multi-currency option, so borrower can switch the loan from one currency to another in successive interest periods. Less common in debt securities. 
iv) Privacy. Syndicated loans can be kept private between borrower and banks.
v) Renegotiation of Terms. Possible to renegotiate with lenders for loans, but unlikely for bonds (too many investors to contact each one of them), or cumbersome (debt security restructuring by calling meetings).
vi) Availability for smaller and less creditworthy borrowers. Issuers of debt securities generally need to be established companies with good credit ratings – if the issuer is not of sufficient size/creditworthiness, it may not be able to issue debt securities and will probably have to rely on loans from banks instead.
1.5.2 Types of lending and facilities 
20.  Bilateral vs Syndicated Loans
a) Advantages of Bilateral loans
i) Private for both parties
ii) Documents are simpler, fees will be lower as the bank plays a less complex role.
iii) Private nature may enable negotiation of more flexible terms.
iv) Usually arises from long-term banking relationships. 
b) Disadvantages of Bilateral loans
i) High value bilateral loans usually have higher fees due to risk to lender (since only one lender).
ii) Value available is usually lower.

c) Advantages of syndicated loans
i) Can raise larger amounts at lower costs.
ii) Allows lender to be involved in a wider range of deals (regulatory restrictions).
iii) Possible to borrow in different currencies.
d) Disadvantages of syndicated loans
i) More complex documentation, higher fees for intermediaries.
ii) Difficult to deviate from market precedent, LMA standard documentation.
iii) Borrower confidentiality harder to maintain as information goes to many banks.

21. Term vs Revolving Loans – I.E. DURATION OF LOAN
a) Term Loan Advantages
i) Certainty of repayment schedule. 
ii) Use of tranches can provide some flexibility.
iii) Interest likely lower than overdraft.
b) Term Loan Disadvantages
i) Once repaid, cannot re-borrow. 
ii) Usually has a term of no more than 5 years.

c) Revolving Loan Advantages
i) Gives borrower maximum flexibility while being a committed facility (so borrower has to pay commitment fees). The borrower can draw as much or as little as it requires at any time and, if cash flow is sufficient, it can repay outstanding tranches that are no longer required.
d) Revolving Loan Disadvantages
i) Due to long commitment period, higher commitment fees.
ii) Likely to include more restrictions than an overdraft, for e.g.:
* Minimum notice period before a sum is advanced
* Bank may set upper and lower limits on amounts which may be drawn at any one time and/or the number of interest periods that may exist in parallel at any one time (to reduce administrative burden)
* Bank may impose a repayment schedule

22. Security
a) Common assets taken as security:
i) Land, buildings, machinery
ii) Intellectual property
iii) Trading stock
iv) Book debts
v) Cash in bank accounts
vi) Shares of the borrower and its subsidiaries
b) Disadvantages of secured loans
i) Fixed charges can restrict the borrower’s ability to do day-to-day business.
ii) Borrower must have the necessary power to grant the security, and ensure that granting the security will not breach covenants of other existing agreements.
iii) Security must not be prohibited financial assistance in acquisition finance.
c) Unsecured loans
i) Loan Market Association (LMA) has various standard forms for these. All LMA precedents for investment grade syndicated loans are unsecured – indicating that many investment grade syndicated loans in the EU and US are unsecured.
ii) Advantageous to borrower as they can freely use their assets which would otherwise be subject to security; little to no interference from lender.
iii) But lender will charge a much higher margin or may not lend at all.
1.5.3 Corporate Loan facilities: cross border 
23. Introduction to the terms of a facility agreement in cross-border lending.
a) Layout
i) Most loans follow the same layout, which is in the LMA facility agreement.
b) Some considerations
i) Regulatory issues – some jurisdictions regulate lending to “consumers”, or the act of moneylending, or maybe nothing at all. Giving and taking of security may be regulated.
c) The rest of the reading covers some essential terms (only those not covered in lecture)

24. Type and amount of facility
a) Committed or uncommitted – all facilities are one or the other.
i) Uncommitted facilities means the lender has discretion to advance funds to the borrower or to refuse to lend at all.
ii) Committed facilities require lender to advance funds when requested by the borrower to do so, assuming agreed conditions are met. It also generally involves a commitment fee.
b) Term or revolving

25. Purpose of facility
a) May state a specific purpose – 
i) Minimise lender’s risk of not obtaining repayment by controlling borrower’s behaviour.
ii) Avoid risk that lender consented to illegal use of loan funds.
iii) Funds drawn by a borrower for a specific and exclusive purpose may in some circumstances remain the property of the lender unless and until the borrower applies them for that purpose. The funds may be subject to a trust so if the borrower becomes insolvent, the loan funds remaining in the borrower’s hands will generally be payable to the lender and not available to satisfy the insolvent borrower’s creditors
b) General corporate purpose
i) Borrower can use it for anything in relation to business.
ii) Maybe restricted to use as “working capital”.

26. For more information (doubt it is required) refer to the pdf directly.
1.5.4 Security Interests
27. Sources of law on securities in Singapore
a) Companies Act
b) IRDA for treatment in insolvency.
c) CLPA for specific assets (e.g., land, ships, IP rights).
 
28. Fixed and floating charges
a) Floating charges (over a generic class of assets which are changing from time to time and with which the company has the right to deal) are more flexible for the company.
b) However, fixed charges are taken over non-dealing assets (i.e. borrower cannot freely deal with such assets). Thus, the lender/creditor exercises some degree of control over the asset.
c) Floating charges are weaker than fixed charges in these ways:
i) Floating ranks below fixed charges in priority, even if created earlier. The following are paid out of the assets subject to a floating charge:
(1) Expenses of a winding up, AND
(2) Certain employee wages, benefits, provident fund contributions and retrenchment benefits, within limits.
ii) Floating charge created over company property is invalid if 
(1) made less than 1 year before a company’s winding up/judicial management AND
(2) the company was unable to pay its debts at the time it was made, or became unable to pay its debts because of the transaction related to the charge.
(a) If charge is in favour of an individual connected with the company, lookback period is 2 years. It is also not necessary that the company was or became unable to pay to its debts.
d) Floating charge over entire business means the business can be sold substantially as a whole.
 
29. Perfection – registration of charges
a) Some Aircraft – Charge capable of being registered under the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment does not need to be filed at ACRA.
i) This relates to some aircrafts, aircraft engines, and airframes.
 
30. Enforcement – 
a) Private sale of security asset
i) Allowed if agreed in security agreement. Impliedly agreed if security agreement a deed.
ii) Foreclosure (transfer of the asset to the creditor/lender free of the debtor’s/borrower’s right to redeem) is generally not allowed without a court order.
b) Possession and receiver
i) Mortgagee/creditor/lender generally allowed to take possession of the secured asset, collect income.
ii) Can appoint a receiver to manage the asset.
iii) Creditor/mortgagee may be liable for negligent losses, but can be contracted out of, or if receiver is appointed then can avoid liability for negligent losses. This is because the receiver will be an agent of the company/mortgagor and not the mortgagee. 
iv) Otherwise the mortgagee will generally indemnify receiver for losses.
c) Grace periods – statutory grace periods for exercise of power of sale under CLPA. Can be varied contractually or excluded, and they commonly are.
d) Interest on secured debts in liquidation
i) IRDA s 223 – secured creditors should realize its security within 12 months of the commencement of winding up of the debtor company, to be entitled to any interest in the secured debt.



2 DEBT CAPITAL MARKETS
2.1 Bonds and bond markets
1. What is a bond?
a) Instrument constituting or evidencing a debt.
b) Issuer promises to repay the principal amount it has borrowed from the bondholder at a certain specified time in the future.
c) Investment return in the form of interest paid out on specified interest payment dates.

2. Why bond instead of loan?
a) Access to a broader investor base (not just banks)
i) Investors include institutional investors e.g., pension funds, large companies, insurers.
ii) Investors also sell bonds to other willing investors. 
iii) Investor does not need to wait until maturity date of the bond to be repaid. Less common for secondary trading of loans, other than in distressed debt situations.
b) Fewer covenants than in a syndicated loan
i) Less information covenants, covenants not to make changes to borrower’s business etc.
ii) E.g., usually a negative pledge in a bond.
c) More flexible interest rate options for the borrower– 
i) zero rate, coupon, convertible. 
ii) Syndicated loans generally just have a floating rate of interest.
d) Frequently unsecured
i) Possible to issue secured bonds, but uncommon.
ii) Investors are willing to invest in unsecured bonds without requiring security on the issuer/borrower’s part, so no need to secure.
e) Less disclosure. Disclosure on issuer usually limited to information that is publicly available, for example, financial statements rather than detailed management accounts
i) Cf. syndicated loans, where lenders do thorough due diligence on borrower. 
ii) Borrower in a loan generally has to disclose more information to a lender in a syndicated loan transaction.

3. Eurobond (international) vs Domestic Bond
a) Domestic Bond: Bonds issued to domestic investors in their domestic currency (e.g. SG company issuing SGD-denominated bonds to SG-based investors).
b) Eurobond: Bonds denominated in a currency (any currency) other than that of the country or countries in which they are sold.
i) E.g., a SG company issuing a USD bond. This also means the bond will probably be traded in other markets as well.
ii) Internationalisation of the bond market – Eurobonds are traded globally, across borders. Very normal to trade in the international/global bond market. Major financial centres are – Hong Kong, Singapore, Tokyo, London, New York.

4. Benefits of International Debt Capital Markets
a) Advantages
i) Larger pool of investors, 
ii) Consequently, Larger supply of funds,
iii) Also consequently, Reduced cost of funds (“price for borrowing money”). Generally cheaper (via interest payments to bondholders) than borrowing using a loan.
b) Disadvantages – more regulatory and compliance issues (for international bonds), more complexity.
i) Need to satisfy requirements of many jurisdictions.
c) But generally, advantages will outweigh the disadvantages.

5. Standalone vs Medium-Term Note Programmes
a) Standalone issuance of bond
i) A single issuance by an issuer of bonds with specified terms, maturity and interest rate
ii) These may be fixed or varied, set out in the offering documents, does not change once it has been sold and subscribed by investors.
b) Medium-term note (MTN) programme
i) An uncommitted facility set up by the issuer and panel of investment banks appointed by the issuer. 
(1) Issuer may issue and investment banks may purchase (or find subscribers for) securities from time to time, on the general terms set out in the MTN programme.
(2) Detailed terms for issuance of the securities (commercial terms, e.g. maturity, interest rates) will be agreed at the time of the particular issue of securities 
ii) A framework of agreements designed to facilitate the quick, cheap and frequent issue of a wide range of debt securities by issuers.
iii) Advantages:
(1) Stability to react quickly for cheap funding opportunities.
(2) Reduce management time, since framework in place.
(3) Flexibility to use a single set of documentation for multiple types of transactions.
(4) Consistency of terms across all its funding instruments.
iv) Disadvantages:
(1) More costly to set up a programme, of course.  
(2) May be worth it if issuer making multiple bond issuances in a year.
(3) Not suitable for issuances with unusual or complex terms, since the effort to modify a vanilla framework will be protracted. 

6. Wholesale vs Retail bond markets
a) Wholesale bond market
i) Offered only to specified investors in larger denominations.
ii) Usually traded over-the-counter (OTC) after issuance.
b) Retail bond market
i) Offered to all investors, including retail investors.
ii) Can/usually are traded on the exchange.

2.2 Structure of a bond transaction
7. Structure of a bond transaction 

a) There are intermediaries between Issuer and Bondholders.

b) *Investment banks that act as managers.
i) Advise issuers on the investment.
ii) Advise on: structuring of the bond, what covenants to have, what kind of bond would be attractive, what coupon rate to pay, where to market the bond. 
iii) Also help with the marketing process of theu      bond – generate interest and market to investors.
iv) Managers may also underwrite the bond; subscription or underwriting agreement with issuer, where the manager will subscribe for the bond if the prospective investor fails to honour commitment to make payment for the bond.

c) Paying agent 
i) Help with the administrative function of paying bondholders the interest on the interest payment dates. 
ii) Issuers pay the paying agents, who pass it over to clearing systems, which send them to the bondholders as required.

8. Trustee / Fiscal Agent Structure
a) Note – these are 2 types structures that can be used.
b) Trustee structure vs Fiscal agency structure. 
i) In a fiscal agency structure, the principal paying agent will be the fiscal agent.

c) Trustee structure
i) Used when there are a large number of bondholders.
ii) Must be appointed if debt securities to be listed on SGX-ST, unless both
(1) Securities only offered to specified investors, and
(2) Traded in a minimum lot size of SGD200,000 or equivalent. 
iii) Interactions between issuer and bondholders go through trustee.
iv) Gives issuer a single point of contact.
v) Trustee represents the bondholders.
vi) BUT the trustee is not a pure agent, so they are duty bound to act in the interests of the bondholders.
vii) In theory, they have discretion to make decisions for the bondholders without getting their consent. 
viii) In practice, they will usually consult bondholders due to potential for liability.
ix) Usually, it is provided that in an event of default, if a certain proportion of bondholders approach the trustee, the trustee must declare an event of default. 
x) Not always required on all transactions.

d) Fiscal agency structure
i) No trustee representing the bondholders in the collective.
ii) Each bondholder must monitor compliance with the bond documents, take enforcement actions against the issuer on occurrence of an event of default.
iii) Fiscal agent is an agent of the issuer (and not the bondholder). Must seek instructions on every issue. --> fiscal agent will also be the principal paying agent

2.3 Prospectuses and prospectus exemptions
9. Key documentation in a bond issue – other documents covered in readings. Main thing to note is the prospectus. The 
a) Prospectus or offering circular
b) Subscription agreement
c) Agency agreement
i) Deed of covenant
d) Trust deed
e) Forms of bonds and definitive bonds
f) Terms and conditions of bonds

10. The Prospectus --> very public facing
a) This is the main offering document for a bond issue (as well as IPO).
b) A legal document required by the Securities and Futures Act – 
i) SFA is the main statute governing offering and selling of debt securities in Singapore, sets out requirements around such conduct.
ii) Prospectus is required unless an exemption applies.
iii) A legal and regulatory disclosure document, not a marketing document.
iv) Must be registered with MAS before it can be circulated.
c) Must contain:
i) all information that an investor would reasonably require to make an informed assessment; and 
ii) all information prescribed by the MAS in regulations.
d) Typically contains:
i) Description of the bonds – T&C
ii) Description of the issuer’s business and operations
iii) Financial information about the issuer
iv) Risk factors relating to the bonds and the issuer’s business.
v) Accompanied by a product highlights sheet.
e) It is an offence to: 
i) omit any information that is required, or make a false or misleading statement.
ii) offer securities without a prospectus unless an exemption applies.
 

11. Prospectus Exemptions – common ones are:
a) Offers to specific classes of investors. (wholesale bond exception)
i) Specified investors: 
* institutional investors (financial institutions like a bank or investment firm) (SFA s 274) and 
* accredited investors (individuals with SGD$2m in net personal assets, or SGD$1m + $300k income / or corporation with net assets of SGD$10m) (SFA s 275). 
ii) *Information memorandum instead of prospectus will be issued describing the securities – less strictly regulated than a prospectus. Does not attract criminal liability for false or misleading statements, or non-disclosure of material facts.
iii) For issuers seeking to list the debt securities, Listing Manual r 313 states that “the offering documents must contain the information that such investors would customarily expect to see in those documents.”

b) Issuer already listed on a stock exchange. (for retail market issuances)
i) *Offer information statement – disclosure requirements less extensive than prospectuses.
ii) Since issuer is already listed, they already make various disclosures publicly.  

c) Others 
i) Lecturer notes that “Detailed knowledge not required, no need to know specific details of eligibility for these.” [some basic info added from readings]
ii) These two frameworks are generally for issuers with higher standards of size, listing history, and credit. 
iii) Bond Seasoning Framework: If conditions met,
(1) Retail investors can buy bonds initially only offered to specified investors, through secondary trading on SGX-ST Mainboard, 6 months after issuance. 
(2) Issuers can “re-tap” and make subsequent offers of new bonds with principally the same terms as those that have undergone seasoning.
iv) Exempt Bond Issuer Framework: 
(1) Higher credit eligibility criteria than the BSF, and more stringent conditions. 
(2) Framework aimed at allowing retail investors to directly subscribe for bonds issued by issuers with stronger credit profiles, without prospectus or the seasoning period. 

2.4 Selected Readings
12. Repeated from slides:
a) Bond issues: overview
2.4.1 Bond Issues: documents
13. Documents
a) Main documents (flagged in slides)
i) Offering document / prospectus (see notes from lecture)
ii) Subscription agreement
iii) Agreement among managers
iv) Fiscal agency agreement + deed of covenant
v) Trust deed + paying agency agreement
vi) Global note
b) Other documents (less important, check pdf for details)
i) Legal opinions
ii) Auditor’s comfort letters
iii) Listing authority documents
iv) Corporate authorisations
v) Process agent letter
vi) Signing and closing memorandum
 
14. Subscription Agreement
a) An agreement between issuer and managers. 
b) Managers subscribe to the bonds. Managers then sell the bonds to prospective investors.
c) Form of issue is according to either the fiscal agency agreement or trust deed.
d) Standard other clauses – reps and warranties, indemnities, etc.

15. Agreement among managers
a) An agreement between managers governing their liability and obligations. Authorises the lead manager to act on their behalf.
b) Refer to ICMA industry-standard agreements.
c) Subscription agreement will have managers subscribe on a joint and several basis.
d) This agreement will specify the proportion of the bond issue each manager will subscribe.

16. Fiscal agent structure
a) NOTE that either this or a trustee structure is used, one or the other.
b) Fiscal agency agreement – relationship between issuer and fiscal agent. The fiscal agent is the agent of the issuer.
c) Deed of covenant – deed under which bondholders are given direct rights of enforcement against the issuer if the issuer defaults on payments. This must be in a deed as issuers do not directly contract with any bondholder.
i) This is only given where there is no trustee.
ii) With a trustee, the trustee will have rights of enforcement.
iii) This deed will be signed by the issuer and dated the closing date.
 
17. Trustee structure
a) NOTE that either this or a fiscal agent structure is used, one or the other.
b) Trust deed. Trustee holds the bonds on trust for the bondholders. 
i) Includes issuer covenants, where the issuer covenants to perform its duties under the terms of the bond e.g. to pay amounts required.
ii) Trustee powers and obligations – obligation to hold the bonds and money received in respect of the bonds on trust; trustee given power to use on its discretion. 
iii) Trustee protection – some protections for the trustee who has to exercise their discretion, unless it has been negligent. Generally not liable for (1) loss caused by third parties that have been delegated roles, or (2) depreciation in value of the investments.
c) Paying agency agreement.
i) Relationship between the issuer and paying agents, sets out mechanics for payment of money to bondholders.
 
18. Global note
a) Global note is produced as a separate document for closing, signed by the issuer.
b) Global vs definitive
i) A global note is a single document representing the total debt issued and is held by a depositary on behalf of the holders. This single note does not need to be a formal certificate or be specially printed.
ii) Definitive note – physical printed securities. Bearer bonds are a type of definitive security.
c) Contains:
i) Description of the issuer and parties
ii) Terms and conditions of the bonds (drafted as if the issue were in definitive form).
iii) Payment provisions.
iv) Provisions for the global note to be exchanged into  definitive bonds in very limited and unlikely circumstances.

2.4.2 Bond Issues: step-by-step guide
19. Think this is more about practical knowledge regarding the workflow in DCM.
a) Refer to the International Capital Market Association’s guidance notes, which are market standard and should be followed where possible. 

20. Stages of a bond issue
a) Pre-launch – issuer mandates a lead manager, both instructing lawyers. Issuer considers what type of bonds and how to issue them.
b) Launch and Roadshow – announce bond issue and promote them.
c) Issue 
i) Signing – of the subscription agreement.
ii) Closing – when investors actually receive bonds. Fiscal agency or trust deed is signed, bond instrument is created.
d) Post-issue – regular payments of interest and principal repayment at end (as applicable).

21. Pre-Launch – some issues to consider.
a) Can the issuer issue? Standard checks and assurances required on the powers of and restrictions on the issuer.  
b) Can the guarantor guarantee? Similar.
c) Structuring the issue
i) Bearer or registered bonds.
ii) Global or definitive.
iii) Listed or not. 
iv) Rated or not.
d) Appointment of parties. Issuer appoints all the relevant parties to the transaction. On top of those already mentioned in the lecture, there are also:
i) Auditors (issuer’s and guarantor’s auditors may need to provide letters)
ii) Registrar, who keeps track of the names and addresses of owners of registered bonds. 
iii) Various other agents. – transfer, calculation, listing, rating, process agent.
e) Role of the lawyer
i) Lead manager’s lawyers usually prepare the main legal documents for issue.
(1) Main legal documents:
(a) Prospectus
(b) Subscription agreement
(c) Agreement among managers
(d) EITHER Fiscal Agency agreement + deed of covenant, 
(i) OR trust deed + paying agency agreement.
(e) Global note
(f) Legal opinion
(g) Signing and closing memorandum
(2) Other legal documents
(a) Engagement/mandate letter (appointing the manager)
(b) Auditor’s comfort letters
(c) Issuer’s board minutes
(d) Process agent appointment letter.
ii) Both issuer and manager’s lawyers will conduct due diligence.

22. Launch
a) Lead manager may contact other banks to form a syndicate.
b) Managers will pre-sell bonds to prospective investors.
c) Negotiations with investors.

23. Issue – signing and closing
a) Before signing
i) All documents prepared, prospectus approved.
b) Signing – subscription agreement signed, prospectus approved by authority.
i) Around 2 days to 1 week before closing. Historically took place in person at signing meetings, now frequently takes place via email.
ii) To be dealt with at signing:
(1) Prospectus
(2) Subscription agreement
(3) Agreement among managers (signed privately usually).
(4) Process agent appointment letter
(5) Escrow documents
iii) If bonds to be admitted to a stock exchange, other formalities may be necessary.
c) Closing – bonds are signed and delivered to bondholders, payment transferred.
i) Bonds transferred from issuer to bondholder, payment also transferred.
ii) In practice involves additional parties and a bit of complexity due to:
(1) High value of the bond
(2) Simultaneous delivery and payment – can be difficult with multiple participants from different jurisdictions, time zones, currencies, banks.
iii) Solutions for closing:
(1) Banks hold global note. Issuer holds a “global note” deposited with a financial institution, rather than definitive certificates given to each investor. This avoids the risk of transferring high value paper instruments to each investor.
(2) Clearing systems. Investors hold securities in electronic form, transfer effected by book entries in an electronic accounting system. Sellers and buyers open cash and securities accounts in the system, which are credited or debited as required.
2.4.3 Debt Capital Markets in Singapore: Regulatory Overview
24. DCM legislation
a) Main legislation is the Securities and Futures Act 2001 (SFA)
i) Prospectus is required for issue unless falling into an exemption
b) If issued on the SGX-ST, must also comply with the SGX-ST Listing Manual.
i) The SGX-ST can apply to the court to enforce the rules under SFA s 25.

25. Practices when issuing bonds
a) Issuer to classify bond – issuers must determine whether the issue will be a “prescribed capital markets product” (CPM) or a “CPM other than prescribed CPM” (SFA s 309B).
i) involves determining whether they are one of the types of CPMs listed as “prescribed capital markets products” and notifying the required persons of this classification.
ii) classification determines whether further steps are needed, such as conducting a customer account review or customer knowledge assessment.
b) Listed issuers – 
i) Should comply with best practices in the Listing Manual.
ii) Must announce any information concerning it or any subsidiaries necessary to avoid establishing a false market in its securities or would be likely to materially affect the price or value of its securities (Listing Manual r 703(1))
iii) [don’t get it] listed issuer must immediately announce if it or any of its subsidiaries enters a loan agreement or issues debt securities that contains a specified condition (a condition that refers to the shareholding interests of any controlling shareholder of the issuer) that a breach would lead to:
(1) A default event,
(2) An enforcement event, or 
(3) An event that would cause acceleration of the loan/security, significantly affecting the operations of the issuer or resulting in the issuer facing cashflow problems. 
iv) must obtain certain undertakings from such controlling shareholders (r 704(31), 728)
v) Should minimally include the complete latest audited financial information.

26. Listing Requirements for debt securities on the SGX-ST – Listing Manual r 303, 304
a) Local issuers listed on the SGX can issue debt securities if it has a principal amount of a minimum of SGD750,000 (or its equivalent in foreign currencies)

b) Local issuers not listed on the SGX must meet one of various requirements to issue debt securities:
i) Meet requirements in r 210(2), (3), (4), (5) and issue has principal amount of at least SGD750,000.
ii) 80% subscribed by specified investors and issue has principal amount of at least SGD750,000.
iii) Issuer is the Singapore Government or government agency.
iv) Debt security credit rating of investment grade and above.
v) Issue at least SGD750,000, and Issuer’s obligations guaranteed by: 
(1) a listed entity, 
(2) an entity meeting requirements in r 210(2), (3), (4), (5), or 
(3) SG Govt or Govt agency.

c) Foreign issuer criteria. must be one of the following:
i) Supranational body.
ii) Govt, or a government agency whose obligations are guaranteed by a government.
iii) Entity whose equity securities are listed on the SGX-ST.
iv) Corporation that meets requirements in r 210(2), (3), (4), (5).
v) Entity with either:
(1) a cumulative consolidated pre-tax profit of at least SGD50 million (or its equivalent in foreign currencies) for the last three years; or
(2) a minimum pre-tax profit of SGD20 million (or its equivalent in foreign currencies) for any one of the three years, and consolidated net tangible assets of at least SGD50 million (or its equivalent in foreign currencies).
vi) Issuer whose obligation is guaranteed by any above entity.
vii) Or one of the following requirements is met:
(1) 80% subscribed by specified investors.
(2) Debt securities has credit rating of investment grade and above.
(3) issuer or guarantor meets the criteria for exemption under the Securities and Futures (Offers of Investments) (Exemption for Offers of Straight Debentures) Regulations 2016 of Singapore.
(4) Issuer or guarantor meets the eligibility criteria under Part VI of Chapter 3 of the SGX-ST Listing Manual.

d) Foreign issuers should appoint paying agent in SG.
i) Normally required to appoint a paying agent in Singapore while the debt securities are quoted on the SGX-ST and on the issue of debt securities in definitive form. (r 305) 
ii) SGX-ST may accept other arrangements to enable definitive certificate holders of the bearer debt securities in Singapore to be paid promptly.

e) Minimum board lot size (for wholesale bonds listed on the SGX-ST) is SGD200,000 (or its equivalent in foreign currencies) on the SGX-ST.

27. Prospectus details
a) If the offer of bonds is under a “debenture issuance programme”, it must include both:
i) Base prospectus applicable to every offer under the debenture issuance programme.
ii) Pricing statement applicable to that particular offer.
b) Key requirements for a prospectus include that it must:
i) Be signed by all directors, proposed directors or their authorised agents.
ii) Be dated, as no debentures (type of bond) can be issued in relation to a prospectus that has been issued more than 24 months previously in the case of debentures issued under a debenture issuance programme, or more than six months previously in any other case.
iii) Be registered with MAS before it can be circulated.
iv) Be accompanied by a product highlights sheet.
v) Disclose the principal T&C of the issue to be publicly offered, including the:
(1) issue price;
(2) redemption price;
(3) form;
(4) rate of interest;
(5) guarantees constituted in favour of the holders of the debt securities; and
(6) maturity date.
vi) Disclose the financial covenants of the issuer and the definition of events constituting events of default.
c) Prospectus must be lodged online with the MAS for at least 7 days before they can be registered. 
d) Content requirements – SFA s 243, SFR, Listing Manual Ch 6 (if listed on SGX-ST). In particular:
i) Issuer and its directors, key executives and employees.
ii) Ownership of the company.
iii) Debt securities.
iv) Issuer's finances, including accounting policies.
v) Issuer's business prospects, including any known trend information and profit forecast.
vi) Issuer's auditors, registrars and other agents.
vii) Issuer's credit rating.
viii) Any interested person transactions and interests of experts, underwriters and financial advisers.
ix) Taxes.
x) Use of the proceeds from the offer.
xi) Risk considerations.

28. Offer information statement (OIS)
a) SFA s 277 – if issuer is listed, can issue to retail investors with just the OIS.
b) OIS doesn’t need to be registered with MAS, no 7-day exposure period. Can be circulated once lodged with MAS. All offering documents of debt securities listed on the SGX-ST, including simplified disclosure documents and information memorandums, are made publicly available on the SGX-ST.
c) Content requirements – less onerous. Typically contains:
i) Description of the debt securities or programme (if it is a programme).
ii) Risk factors.
iii) Use of proceeds of the issuance of debt securities.
iv) Selected financial information.
v) Description of the issuer (and guarantor, if applicable).
vi) Directors and senior management of the issuer.
vii) Terms and conditions of the debt securities.
viii) Tax considerations.
ix) Ratings (if applicable).
x) Subscription, purchase and distribution information.
xi) Clearing and settlement information.
xii) Selected corporate information such as the authorisations obtained and statements as to material adverse change,
xiii) material litigation, borrowings and changes in accounting standards
 
29. Liability for documentation
a) Prospectus (SFA s 253, 254) – civil and criminal liability possible for
i) The issuer.
ii) The issuer's directors.
iii) The underwriters.
iv) Any person who is and who has consented to be named in the prospectus as a proposed director or equivalent of the issuer.
b) Offer information statement (SFA s 253, 254) – same as Prospectus.
c) Information memorandum 
i) Doesn’t attract liability as above. 
ii) Potential liability for:
(1) false or misleading statement in an information memorandum (SFA s 199) or 
(2) fraudulently inducing persons to deal in capital markets products (SFA s 200).
d) Liability at general law – applicable to all
i) Common law – negligent misrepresentations.
ii) Misrepresentation Act 1967 (including innocent misrepresentations)
iii) Penal Code 1871 – obtaining money by deception, fraud involving deliberately false statements. 
 
30. Timeline, clearing and settlement – boring, refer to pdf

31. Some relevant content added directly to lecture notes.


3 EQUITY CAPITAL MARKETS
1. Why issue shares?
a) Companies started with investors providing share capital. 
b) Later, companies can choose to raise money through debt or equity.
c) Differences
i) Equity: No obligation to repay share capital, BUT dilutes existing shareholders.
ii) Debt: Must be repaid with interest, but creditor has no control over business.
d) Considerations when deciding: 
i) Amount of existing debt – not attractive for company to be too leveraged.
ii) Restrictions on borrowing – may be limited by terms of existing agreements, or other licensing requirements imposed on company.
iii) Availability and cost of debt finance – are lenders prepared to lend to company? At what interest rate? Compared to cost of issuing equity?
iv) How the buyer’s shares are rated – what is the likely reaction of company’s shareholders if they issue shares, and are the shares well valued by the market?

2. Common methods of Equity Financing
a) Private – through a subscription agreement
i) E.g., venture capital  
b) Public – public offer of shares
i) IPOs
ii) Through subsequent, secondary offerings: placements or rights issues.

3.1 Private Companies – equity financing
3. Various sources of private equity investment
a) Friends and family fundraising rounds
b) Angel investors
c) Government schemes (e.g., Startup SG which provides mentorship and startup capital grants to qualifying applicants)
d) Singapore accredited start-up incubators
e) Corporate venture capital investors

4. Prospectus exemptions: --> I.E. NO NEED PROSPECTUS
As a general rule, all companies that sell shares in themselves come under the obligation to issue a prospectus unless an exemption applies. 

Small, private, early-stage companies seeking funding from private investors would also have to rely on certain prospectus exemptions to market their shares. There are 3 main exemptions relied upon:
a) Small offer – total amount raised is <$5m in a period of 12 months
b) Private placement – offer to <50 people in any period of 12 months + no advertisements. 
c) Accredited/Institutional investors – offer only to accredited investors and institutional investors.
i) Same definitions across the SFA.

5. Additional considerations
a) Limit on number of number of shareholders
i) Private companies can only have 50 shareholders.
ii) If more than 50, need to convert to a public limited company.
iii) NOTE that public limited companies with net tangible assets of $5m or more, they will become prima facie subject to the Takeover Code.
b) Approval of existing shareholders
i) Share issuances dilute existing shareholders.

6. Principal Documents
a) Share subscription agreement 
i) Sets out terms and conditions of the subscription 
ii) Includes warranties as to the business/financial state of the company 
iii) Investors will carry out due diligence to assure themselves about the warranties and the state of the company.
b) Shareholders’ agreement (SHA) – regulates the management of the company and specifies respective rights and obligations of shareholders between each other
i) Protective provisions for the investors – normally minority shareholders in the company. 
ii) Certain corporate governance rights 
(1) Appointment of directors, observers
(2) Reserved matters for shareholders.
iii) Anti-dilution mechanisms – pre-emption rights.
iv) Transfer restrictions – right of first refusal over the shares when being sold to a 3P.
v) Exit mechanisms – e.g., co-sale right, allow minority investor to sell a pro rata portion of their shares to a third party investor buying shares.

3.2 Public Offer of Shares (IPO)
7. Overview
a) Investors want to recoup their investment; they can do so by selling off their shares.
b) Difficult to do so when the company is private as there is no ready market.
c) One of the ways to do this is a public listing, achieved by IPO.
d) Successful IPO exit depends on market conditions, regulatory approvals.
 
8. SGX-ST
a) There are 2 boards
b) Mainboard 
i) Higher entry and listing requirements.
ii) Profitability or market capitalisation requirements.
(1) Need a minimum 1-year track record to satisfy one of these requirements
(2) Refer to readings on these requirements and tests to assess them.
(3) Purpose – ensure their shares are suitable for investment by general public.
c) Catalist (for smaller and fast-growing issuers)
i) No minimum quantitative entry criteria
ii) Assessment of suitability by approved sponsors / issue managers

9. Prospectus – main document in an IPO.
a) Must contain all information reasonably required by investors to make an informed assessment of the shares.
i) E.g., assets and liabilities, P&L, financial position, performance, prospects of the issuer.
b) Prepared by the issuer and its advisers – banks, legal advisors.
c) Before issuance, verification exercise with issuer to confirm key statements in it.
d) Criminal and civil liability for omissions and misleading statements.

10. Key steps for an IPO
a) Pre-IPO restructuring (if required)
b) Conduct of due diligence
c) Prospectus drafting
d) Submission of listing application to the SGX-ST (including the prospectus)
e) Submission of the draft prospectus to the MAS
f) Review by and responding to queries from the SGX-ST and MAS
g) Negotiation of legal documentation such as underwriting agreement
h) Registration of prospectus with MAS
i) Once registered, open to public to subscribe.
i) Pricing (by banks) and allocation of shares 
j) Admission of issuer to the Official List of the SGX-ST and listing and quotation of shares.
 
11. Steps for an IPO
a) Typically takes 6-12 months, depending on whether issues are raised, time to resolve them.
b) Readings contain more detailed steps and an indicative timeline for a Mainboard listing.

12. Methods of IPO Marketing
a) Pre-IPO placements 
i) To early investors
ii) Increasing issuer’s credentials, incentivising pre-IPO investors to persuade other investors to subscribe to the securities.
iii) Funding obtained is used to fund the entire IPO process.
b) Cornerstone investors 
i) Concurrent but separate from the IPO, served at the IPO price.
ii) Strong book of cornerstone investors increases deal certainty.
c) Roadshows 
i) Market to accredited investors.
d) Advertising/other publicity
i) Market to retail investors

13. Continuing Obligations (for the listed companies) – some main areas
a) Disclosure of material information
i) Issuers must disclose any information necessary to avoid establishing a false market in its securities, or in circumstances where such information would likely materially affect the pricing of its securities.
ii) Issuers must, among other things, promptly clarify or confirm rumours not substantiated by the issuer, which are likely to have or have had an effect on its securities.
b) Periodic financial reporting
i) Whether it’s the Half-year, quarterly, or full-year results,
ii) At a certain period of time after the end of these periods.
c) Interested person transactions.
i) Such transactions are subjected to higher governance requirements
ii) Related parties in a position to influence issuer for their own benefits.
iii) Requirement for shareholder approval if value of transaction exceeds specified limits.
d) Corporate governance.
i) Required to comply with the Governance Code, explain their corporate governance practices with respect to the Governance Code, with specific references to the Code, in their annual report
ii) Must disclose and explain any deviation from any provision of the Code.

3.3 Readings
3.3.1  Practical Law, ECM in SG: Regulatory Overview
14. Relevant Legislation
a) SFA 
b) SFR, comprising of 
i) Securities and Futures (Offers of Investments) (Securities and Securities-based Derivatives Contracts) Regulations 2018.
ii) Securities and Futures (Offers of Investments) (Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations 2005.
c) Listing rules set out in the SGX-ST listing manual or the Catalist listing manual.

15. Main requirements to be listed
a) Note: some rules don’t apply to issuers seeking a secondary listing.
b) Issue manager and sponsor. 
i) Issuer seeking Mainboard listing needs an accredited issue manager, who must be satisfied that the issuer:
(1) Is suitable to be listed.
(2) Meets the admission requirements.
(3) Is sufficiently set up to comply with the continuing listing requirements.
(4) Has directors that appreciate the nature of their responsibilities and can be expected to honour their obligations under the listing rules.
ii) Issuer seeking Catalist listing needs an “approved full sponsor”. The full sponsor takes on a similar role to the issue manager in a main board listing, but the full sponsor is also responsible for assessing whether the issuer is suitable to be listed on Catalist and must act as the continuing sponsor for the issuer for at least three years after listing.
c) Track Record.
i) Mainboard listing – at least 1-year track record satisfying one of the following:
(1) Profitability test A. Minimum consolidated pre-tax profit (based on full year consolidated audited accounts) of at least SGD30 million for the latest financial year and operating track record of at least three years.
(2) Profitability test B. Profitable in the latest financial year (pre-tax profit based on the latest full year consolidated audited accounts), operating track record of at least three years and market capitalisation at listing of at least SGD150 million.
(a) In seeking a listing under test A or B, the issuer must have been engaged in substantially the same business, and have been under substantially the same management, throughout the period for which the three-year operating track record applies. In addition, the issuer and its subsidiaries (group) must be in a healthy financial position having regard to whether it has a positive cashflow from operating activities.
(3) Market capitalisation test. Operating revenue (actual or pro forma) in the latest completed financial year and market capitalisation at listing of at least SGD300 million. Real estate investment trusts and business trusts which can meet the SGD300 million market capitalisation test but do not have historical financial information can apply under this test if they can demonstrate that they will generate operating revenue immediately on listing.
ii) Catalist listing – no such requirement.
d) Repayment of Debts.
i) For both mainboard and Catalist listings, all debts owing to the group by its directors, substantial shareholders/unitholders and companies controlled by the directors and substantial shareholders/unitholders must be settled before listing.
e) Accounts.
i) The prospectus for the IPO must include the annual audited financial statements of the group for the three most recent completed financial years. Must be in accordance with the accepted accounting and auditing standards prescribed by the SFR.
ii) Generally, interim financial information is required if the date of lodgement of the preliminary prospectus with the MAS is more than six months after the end of the most recent completed financial year.
f) Accounting Standards – compliance with various accounting standards.
g) Working Capital – directors to confirm sufficient for next 12 months. Must also disclose:
i) Any shortfall in working capital or negative cashflow from operating activities, and the reasons for the shortfall.
ii) The issue manager's views on the issuer's viability, and the basis for these views.
h) Directors and Management.
i) Appropriate experience and expertise + character and integrity.
ii) Code of Corporate Governance 2018 – Board and committees should have “appropriate balance and diversity of skills, experience, gender and knowledge of the issuer”, and “provide core competencies such as accounting or finance, business or management experience, industry knowledge, strategic planning experience and customer-based experience or knowledge.”
iii) All issuers – 
(1) 2 independent non-executive directors required.
(2) Independent directors must be at least 1/3 of the board, or majority of board if the Chairman is not independent.
iv) Foreign issuers – at least 2 independent directors resident in SG.
v) A director can only be an independent director for 9 years, unless approved by shareholders.
i) Free Float (minimum shares/units in public hands)
i) Mainboard: 
(1) At listing: Minimum of 12-25% of issuer’s shares must be in public hands at time of listing (i.e. held by persons other than directors, CEO, substantial shareholders or controlling shareholders of the issuer or its subsidiaries, or their respective associates), depending on market capitalisation of the issuer (e.g. larger issuers with a market cap of at least SGD1 billion are required to meet a free float of only 12%).
(2) Post-listing: at least 10%.
(3) All issuers are required to have a minimum of 500 shareholders/unitholders on listing.
(4) IPO: must include a public subscription tranche with at least 5% of the shares or SGD50 million in value of shares (whichever is lower) allocated. 
(5) Minimum subscription and allocation value of the shares at IPO for each investor is SGD500, based on a minimum offer price of SGD0.50 per share
ii) Catalist:
(1) At listing: 15% free float and at least 200 public shareholders.
(2) Minimum subscription and allocation value of the shares at IPO for each investor is SGD200, based on a minimum offer price of SGD0.20 per share
 
16. Procedure for Primary Listing. The key steps to be taken for an IPO and Mainboard listing are:
a) Appointment of market professionals (including issue manager and other professionals, such as legal advisers and auditors).
b) Pre-IPO restructuring (if required).
c) Conduct due diligence.
d) Prospectus drafting.
e) Preparation of independent auditors' and expert reports.
f) Submission of listing application (including the Listing Admissions Pack) to the SGX-ST and submission of the draft prospectus to the MAS for pre-lodgement review.
g) Review by and responding to queries from the SGX-ST and the MAS.
h) Negotiation of legal documentation, such as the underwriting agreement, bank comfort packages and cornerstone subscription agreements (if applicable).
i) Lodgement of preliminary prospectus with the MAS.
j) Marketing and bookbuilding.
k) Registration of prospectus with the MAS.
l) Pricing and allocation of shares/units.
m) Settlement.
n) Admission of issuer to the Official List of the SGX-ST and listing and quotation of shares/units.
o) Exercise of any over-allotment option/stabilisation.

17. Structuring an IPO
a) Note: shares offered can be either new or existing shares held by other shareholders.
b) 3 ways to list:
i) Public Offer – wide offering to anyone (members of the retail public), electronically via participating local banks and by printed application forms.
ii) Placement – offer to institutional and other high net-worth investors selected by the underwriters in conjunction with the issuer, typically following a bookbuilding process during which prospective investors can indicate the level of interest in the IPO.
o As each such investor typically invests a larger amount for a larger number of shares as compared to retail investors, a placement often results in a narrower shareholder base for the issuer than a public offer
iii) Introduction – only permitted for mainboard listings, appropriate if issuer does not need to raise capital and already meets the requirements for a listing. Here, no public offer of shares.
(1) Listing by introduction is undertaken where either:
(a) Shares of the issuer are already listed on another stock exchange and the mainboard listing is intended to be either a dual primary or secondary listing
(b) Shares of the issuer are distributed to the shareholders of its holding company, and that distribution enables the issuer to meet the shareholding spread requirements for a mainboard listing
(2) Main difference – an introductory document rather than prospectus is issued.
(3) This document:
(a) Is not reviewed by the MAS.
(b) Is not lodged or registered as a prospectus with the MAS.
(c) Does not attract prospectus liability under the SFA (although the issuer and its directors can still incur liability in relation to the introductory document under other provisions of the SFA, other legislation and at common law).
c) Underwriting.
i) Mainboard IPOs are generally fully underwritten by 1 or more investment banks.
ii) Shares not subscribed for by investors will be taken up by these banks.
iii) Provides certainty to the issuer/vendor as to the success of the IPO.
iv) IPO without underwriting requires consultation and approval from SGX-ST.

18. Parties involved in an IPO
a) Issue manager. Acts as sponsor for the issuer's listing on the main board of the SGX-ST. It manages the IPO for the issuer and advises it on all aspects relating to the IPO. It is responsible for:
i) Preparing the issuer for listing and ensuring it meets the SGX-ST admission requirements
ii) Submitting the listing application
iii) Dealing with the SGX-ST on all matters relating to the listing application

b) Underwriters. Issuer can engage financial institutions to underwrite the IPO. Where investors do not fully subscribe for the shares/units, the underwriter(s) will subscribe for the shares/units that are not taken up by investors. 
o If the IPO is large, there will be a syndicate of underwriters, with one or more acting as the lead underwriter (often known as the global co-ordinator).

c) Legal advisers. 
i) In general, the issuer's legal advisers are responsible for:
(1) advising the issuer on the legal aspects of preparing the issuer for listing;
(2) assisting the issuer in the preparation of the prospectus; and
(3) negotiating the legal agreements which the issuer enters into with the underwriters and others.
ii) The underwriters' legal advisers are responsible for:
(1) advising on any legal agreements to which the underwriters are parties;
(2) assisting the underwriters in the preparation of the prospectus; and
(3) advising the underwriters in relation to their obligations.
iii) Both sets of legal advisers conduct legal due diligence and issue legal opinions.

d) Auditors. The independent auditors prepare the financial statements (audited, interim and/or pro forma, as applicable) for inclusion in the prospectus. They will issue an audit report in respect of the annual financial statements to be included in the prospectus. The auditors also provide various comfort letters to the underwriters.

e) Internal controls consultant. The issuer is typically expected to appoint an internal controls consultant to review the internal controls and risk management systems of the issuer group, as well as advise the issuer on remediation of any non-compliance and/or control deficiencies.

f) Public relations (PR) consultants. PR consultants can generate press interest and publicity for the issuer before the IPO (in compliance with applicable publicity restrictions), as well as help to monitor public statements and press releases during the IPO process. After the IPO, ongoing press interest in the issuer can help sustain awareness of the issuer and liquidity in its shares/units.

g) Registrar and depository. The registrar deals with the setting up and maintaining of the issuer's share/unit register. The depository deals with arrangements relating to the scripless book-entry settlement system of the Central Depository (Pte) Limited (Central Depository).

h) Receiving bank. A receiving bank is appointed to receive funds from the offering.

i) Experts. Depending on the nature of the issuer, valuers, industry consultants or other experts may need to be involved in the IPO process, and can produce reports for inclusion in the prospectus.

19. Main Documents
a) Offering document (prospectus or OIS), unless there is an exemption.
b) Audited financial statements.
c) Auditors' audit report (in the case of a prospectus).
d) Underwriting agreement (if underwritten).
e) Lock-up agreements.
f) Bank comfort package, including auditors' comfort letters, due diligence reports and legal opinions from the issuer's and underwriters' legal advisers.
g) Ancillary issuer documents, such as its constitution (in the case of an IPO), board and shareholder/unitholder resolutions.
h) Circular to shareholders/unitholders for secondary offerings (if required).

20. Prospectus details
a) Filed with the MAS for 7-21 days for public viewing and review by the MAS before registration (unless a draft has previously been submitted to MAS for pre-lodgement review).
b) MAS can register the prospectus between the 7th and 21st day (both days inclusive) from the date of lodgement of the prospectus, MAS can extend the date of registration
c) IPO can commence after registration of prospectus with MAS.
d) Main exemptions from the requirements for publication or delivery of a prospectus for a public offering (exemptions under SFA, commonly relied on for secondary offerings):
i) Offer made to no more than 50 persons within any 12-month period
ii) Offer made to existing members of an entity whose shares are listed for quotation on the SGX-ST
iii) Offer made to institutional, accreditors and other specified investors
iv) Offer made using an OIS by an SGX-ST listed issuer

e) Content requirements.
i) all the information that is reasonably required by the investors and their professional advisers to make an informed assessment of the:
(1) Rights and liabilities of the shares/units being offered.
(2) Assets and liabilities, profits and losses, financial position and performance, and prospects of the issuer (or its underlying entities if they are controlled by the offeror and its related parties (together or alone)). 
ii) Matters prescribed in the SFR:
(1) Details of the issuer, its directors, its executive officers and the vendors (if any).
(2) Details of the underwriters, independent auditors and other experts.
(3) The issuer's share capital and its substantial shareholders/unitholders.
(4) The issuer's business operations.
(5) The operating and financial review (which is a description of the issuer's financial position, changes in financial condition and results of operations for each financial year and interim period reported on in the prospectus).
(6) Recent developments and prospects.
(7) Risk factors.
(8) Interested person transactions and conflicts of interest.
(9) Financial statements in accordance with the SFRS(I)s, IFRS or US GAAP.
iii) Any additional information required by the listing rules of the SGX (e.g. responsibility statement by the directors and vendors, if any).

f) *A supplementary or replacement prospectus must also be lodged with MAS if, after the prospectus is registered with MAS but before the close of the offer, the issuer is made aware that the prospectus is defective (e.g. contains a false or misleading statement)

21. Prospectus liability
a) These persons will have criminal and civil liability in the SFA for false or misleading statements, or omissions to state required information:
i) The person making the offer (or each director of the entity making the offer)
ii) Where the person making the offer is the issuer, each person who has consented to be named in the prospectus as a proposed director or an equivalent person of the issuer.
iii) Where the issuer is controlled by the offeror and/or its related parties, the issuer, each director or equivalent person, and each person who has consented to be named in the prospectus as a proposed director or an equivalent person of the issuer.
iv) An issue manager who has consented to be named in the prospectus.
v) An underwriter (but not a sub-underwriter) who consented to be named in the prospectus.
vi) A person named in the prospectus with their consent who either:
(1) made the false or misleading statement in the prospectus; or
(2) made a statement on which the false or misleading statement made in the prospectus is based.
vii) Any other person who made the false or misleading statement, or omitted to state the information or circumstance, but only in respect of the inclusion of the false or misleading statement, or the omission to state the information or circumstances.

b) Statutory defences in the SFA. Most relevant is where the person both:
i) Made all inquiries (if any) that were reasonable in the circumstances, and
ii) believed on reasonable grounds that the statement was not false or misleading.

c) Other liability at general law – same as DCM:
i) Common law (e.g. liability in tort for negligent misstatements)
ii) Misrepresentation Act 1967 of Singapore (also covers innocent misrepresentations)
iii) Provisions in Penal Code 1871 of Singapore relating to obtaining money by deception and to fraud involving deliberate false statements
iv) Foreign securities laws, to the extent that the offer is extended or marketed to investors outside Singapore

22. Marketing for public equity offerings. IPOs are marketed at various stages through the following methods:
a) Pre-IPO placements: to early investors which serves the purpose of increasing the issuer’s credentials and incentivising pre-IPO investors to persuade other investors to subscribe for the issuer’s securities
b) Cornerstone investors: placements to cornerstone investors concurrent, but separate from, the IPO (at offer price) also serve a purpose similar to pre-IPO placements
c) Roadshows: roadshow presentations can be held for institutional and accredited investors after the prospectus is lodged with the MAS
d) Advertising and other publicity: advertising is only relevant for retail offers and can be an effective means of generating additional demand. Advertisement of the IPO before lodgement of the prospectus with the MAS is PROHIBITED (subject to certain exceptions like allowing the publication of research reports subject to applicable conditions)

23. Timetable:
a) Mainboard listing:
i) Start of IPO process: 
* Appoint issue manager, legal advisers, auditors and other experts
* Conduct DD, restructure the issuer group (if required), draft prospectus
* Prepare listing application, consult the SGX-ST about ambiguities concerning compliance with listing criteria (if required)
ii) 2-4 months before Lodgement date:
* Submit Listing Admissions Pack to the SGX-ST (together with the draft prospectus)
* Review period of approximately 2-4 months
* Submit draft prospectus to MAS for pre-lodgement review (optional)
iii) Lodgement date:
* Preliminary prospectus lodged with MAS and published on OPERA (Offers and Prospectuses Electronic Repository and Access)
* MAS reviews the prospectus (if not already reviewed pre-lodgement)
* Commence roadshows for publicity
iv) Registration date (lodgement date plus 7-21 days):
* MAS registers the prospectus if it has no comments
* If the MAS so requires, consider whether to amend the prospectus or make pre-quotation disclosure
* MAS can extend the date for registration of a prospectus
v) Commencement of public offer (lodgement date plus approximately 28 days):
* Public offer of 3-5 days
vi) Closing date (lodgement date plus approximately 33 days):
* Announce the outcome of the offer, subscription rate, etc.
* Issuer is listed and trading in its shares/units commences

b) Secondary offerings (via a rights issue or placement to existing shareholders):
i) No MAS review process
ii) Shorter and less extensive SGX-ST review process
iii) May be necessary to convene a shareholder/unitholder meeting to obtain approval for the issue of new shares/units (unless there is an existing general mandate)

24. Continuing obligations (of issuer, as set out in listing rules):
a) Disclosure of material information. Subject to limited exceptions and in accordance with the Corporate Disclosure Policy of the SGX-ST,
i) Issuers must disclose any information necessary to avoid the establishment of a false market in its securities, or in circumstances where such information would likely materially affect the price of its securities
ii) Issuers must promptly clarify or confirm rumours which have not been substantiated by the issuer and which are likely to have, or have had, an effect on the price of its securities

b) Other disclosure obligations: disclosure of certain specified information (e.g. appointment or cessation of service of key personnel, breach of loan covenants)

c) Periodic financial reporting.
i) Announce financial statements for the first half of the financial year immediately after the figures are available (no more than 45 days after the first half of FY)
ii) Announce financial statements for the full FY immediately after the figures are available (no more than 60 days after FY)
iii) Issuers with adverse or qualified audit opinion or disclaimer of opinion on its financial statements, going concern uncertainty or regulatory concerns additionally need to announce their quarterly financial statements

d) Interested person transactions (IPTs) .
i) Immediately announce any IPTs of a value equal to or more than 3% of the group’s latest audited net tangible assets. If the aggregate value of all transactions entered into with the same interested person during the same FY amounts to 3% of more of the group’s audited net tangible assets, an immediate announcement must be made of the latest transaction and all future transactions entered into with that same interested person during that FY
ii) Shareholders’/unitholders’ approval required for any IPTs which (itself or aggregated with other transactions) was entered into with the same interested person during the same FY that is of a value equal to or more than 5% of the group’s latest audited net tangible assets
* Unless a transaction has already been approved by shareholders or is the subject to aggregation with another transaction already approved, then it need not be included in any subsequent aggregation
* In a meeting to obtain shareholder approval, the interested person and its associates must NOT vote on the resolution or accept appointments as proxies, unless specified instructions as to voting are given
iii) NOTE: IPTs below SGD100,000 are NOT subject to immediate announcement or shareholder approval requirements

e) Acquisitions and realisations.
i) Immediate announcement required if the acquisition or disposal of assets by an issuer or its subsidiary not listed on the SGX-ST or an approved exchange exceeds 5% of the relative figures calculated on the bases set out in the listing rules
ii) There may be further conditions like shareholder approval requirements on the issuer for transactions exceeding 20% or 100% of those relative figures

f) Corporate governance.
i) Expected to “comply or explain” in relation to the Governance Code to describe their corporate governance practices with specific reference to the principles of the Governance Code in their annual report
ii) Disclose any deviation from any provision of the Governance Code together with an appropriate 

25. Equity offerings – private:
a) Use either small offer or private placement exemption – no need prospectus.
b) Alternatively, offers to specified persons (institutional and accredited investors). 
i) Offers can be made to an unlimited number of institutional investors and accredited/other specified investors (under s274 and s275 SFA respectively)
ii) Note that subject to certain exceptions, within 6 months from the date of the initial acquisition, a person who initially acquires shares/units pursuant to the exemption under section 274 or section 275 of the SFA can only subsequently sell the shares/units to an institutional investor or a section 275 Person without registering a prospectus.
3.3.2 VC Investment in SG: Market and Regulatory Overview
26. VC vs PE
a) Main differences: stage/nature of target investee company, size of stake acquired, control over the investee company, deal structure.
Venture CapitalPrivate Equitystage/
nature of targetearly-stage, high-potential, high-growth companieslarger, more mature companiessize of stakeminority stakemajority stakecontrolfounders retain controlgreater controldeal structureInvestee companies typically offer a series of different preference shares in multiple rounds of fundraising.

Investments are typically equity investmentsInvestee companies are financed in a single investment round.

Investments are a combination of equity and debt
27. Sources of funding
a) Early-stage companies obtain funding from:
i) Friends and family fundraising rounds
ii) Angel investors
iii) Government schemes (e.g. Startup SG which provides mentorship and start-up capital grants to qualifying applicants)
iv) Singapore accredited start-up incubators
v) Corporate VC investors

28. Types of company
a) Start-ups in industries with high-growth potential are typically attractive targets for VC investors, e.g. technology sector, including:
i) Financial technology
ii) Advanced manufacturing technology
iii) E-commerce
iv) Biotechnology
v) Logistics
vi) Agri-food technology

29. Standardised investment terms –Venture Capital Investment Model Agreements (VIMA) launched by the Singapore Academy of Law and Singapore Venture Capital & Private Equity Association in October 2018
a) A set of standard form documents to be used in seed rounds and early-stage financing. 
b) Aims to reflect, guide and establish current industry norms, strike a reasonable balance among the incoming investor(s), the investee company and its founders, as well as to save transaction costs and time.
c) Contains:
i) Lexicon to explain VC terminology and concepts to first-time founders or investors.
ii) Non-disclosure agreement.
iii) Term sheet outlining the key terms of the incoming investors' share subscription in the investee company and setting out the rights and obligations of the parties.
iv) Share subscription agreement.
v) Shareholders' agreement.
vi) Convertible agreement regarding equity (CARE), used when the investor invests cash in the investee company in exchange for shares or cash on certain triggering events. The CARE is modelled on the simple agreement for future equity (also known as the SAFE note) frequently used in the United States.
d) Increasingly popular for VC deals in Singapore. There is growing acceptance in SEA that Singapore law is well crafted to meet the legal needs of businesses. VIMA also enhances Singapore’s status as a regional VC hub particularly the documents incorporate Singapore law as the governing law and Singapore as the chosen dispute resolution forum. VIMA also complements the simplified regulatory regime for VC managers introduced in 2017

30. Legal documentation. The principal legal documents used in a VC transaction are:
a) Non-binding term sheet (save for certain specified clauses).
b) Share subscription agreement setting out the terms and conditions of the subscription.
c) Shareholders' agreement regulating the management of the investee company and specifying the respective rights and obligations of shareholders inter se.
d) Amended and restated constitution of the investee company incorporating the terms of the VC investment and the terms of the preference shares if applicable (including liquidation preference, dividends, voting and conversion terms).
e) Employment contracts with key employees.
f) Employee share option plans giving qualifying employees share options to align their interests with those of the investee company.
g) Other ancillary documents setting out corporate approvals for example, board and shareholders' resolutions.

31. Contractual protections for VC investors (likely to be minority shareholders in the investee company)
a) Reserved matters.
b) Anti-dilution mechanisms.
c) Liquidation preference rights in a liquidation event (often defined as including a sale or disposal of all or substantially all of the company’s assets, or a transaction or series of transactions in which more than 50% of voting power in the company is transferred)
d) Pre-emption rights over the issue of new shares.
i) Typically exercisable in subsequent funding rounds on a pro rata basis.
ii) Investors may also require any proposed issue of new shares to be a reserved matter requiring their consent. This offers protection against potential dilution of their stake in the company, as they can veto proposed issues of shares in circumstances where they cannot exercise their pre-emption rights to take up their pro rata portion of the new shares (e.g. due to budgetary constraints or other reasons)
e) Transfer restrictions commonly included in the SHA and mirrored in the company’s constitution. However, common for parties to include exceptions or carveouts to these restrictions for transfers to affiliates or permitted transferees.
i) Rights of first refusal over the shares to be sold to a 3P (shares being sold will be offered to minority shareholder first to refuse).
ii) Rights of first offer.
iii) Co-sale rights enabling a minority investor to sell a pro rata portion of its shares to a 3P buyer along with the selling shareholder(s).
iv) Drag-along rights.
v) Lock-up periods during which no party can transfer their shares in the company.
* Founders can be subject to lock-up periods given their importance in the early stages of growth and development of the company. 
* In certain cases, clauses restricting a transfer of shares by shareholders to a specified group of competitors of the company are also included
* Alternatively, a clause specifying that shareholders can only transfer shares in the company if certain consent thresholds are met (e.g. approval of some or all other shareholders)
f) Rights of first refusal and co-sale rights (also known as tag-along rights). These are protections in event of proposed sale of shares by other shareholders.
g) Certain corporate governance rights. E.g., right to appoint directors or board observers, and shareholders’ board-reserved matters
i) Subject of commercial negotiation depending on the bargaining position of parties

h) In addition to contractual protections, minority shareholders are also protected under the Companies Act against acts of oppression, injustice and discrimination or having their interests as shareholders disregarded by the majority controllers of the company 

32. Typical Required Consents for investment documentation for the investee company (depends on Company constitution, which may have higher thresholds where the company has already held financing rounds and prior investors have negotiated for reserved matters relating to issue of new shares and amendments to the company’s constitution) 
a) Directors' resolutions approving, among others, the conclusion of the investment (including entry into the relevant investment documentation) and the issue of new shares.
b) Shareholders' resolutions authorising:
i) the issue of new shares. Shares can only be issued by a Singapore company with the approval of shareholders in a general meeting (that is, shareholders holding a majority of the voting power in the company) (Companies Act); and
ii) amendments to the company's constitution. A Singapore company's constitution can be altered by a special resolution passed by a supermajority of shareholders (that is, shareholders holding at least 75% of the voting power in the company) (Companies Act).
c) Consents and/or waivers from existing shareholders in respect of their pre-emption rights and approval of the proposed investment, as applicable.
d) All consent requirements contained in existing agreements which the investee company is party to, or licences or permits issued in the name of the investee company (e.g. change of control clauses in contracts entered by the investee company). 

NB: ownership of shares exceeding the prescribed thresholds in companies operating in certain regulated sectors is subject to certain regulatory approvals and notification requirements

33. Exit strategies for VC investors to realise investments in an unsuccessful start-up company
a) Right of co-sale. Dependent on there being a third-party buyer.
* Contracts usually stipulate that shares sold as a result of the exercise of co-sale rights must be “on terms no less favourable” than the terms on which the majority’s shares are sold.
* However, this clause does not protect minority shareholders from receiving an undesirable valuation for the sale of their shares.
* One less common solution is to stipulate a price floor for shares sold when exercising co-sale rights.

b) Redemption of preference shares (in cases where the investment is made by way of subscription for redeemable preference shares).
* Redemption is subject to certain restrictions under the Companies Act
* A start-up must have profits available to effect a redemption of shares, which is unlikely for an unsuccessful company since start-ups are generally not profitable and/or are in the “cash burn” stage
* Shares cannot be redeemed out of capital of the company unless the directors have made a solvency statement in relation to the redemption

c) Preferential rights are triggered in a defined liquidation event. 
i) Generally, a liquidation preference is the amount that must be paid to preference shareholders before ordinary shareholders. Negotiable features of a liquidation preference include:
* Seniority amongst preference shareholders inter se
* Value, often expressed as a multiple of the original investment amount
* Type, that is whether the liquidation preference rights are participating or non-participating
ii) A liquidation event typically includes:
* Liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the company
* Consolidation, merger, scheme of arrangement or amalgamation of the investee company with another company after which existing shareholders of the investee company no longer own a majority of the surviving/acquiring entity’s voting power
* Sale, lease or disposal of all or substantially all of the company’s assets
* Transaction or a series of transactions in which more than 50% of voting power in the company is transferred

d) These strategies can be built into the company constitution and/or SHA, and can require an exit within a pre-agreed period of time.

34. Exit strategies to realise a VC fund’s investment in a successful company
a) Liquidation preference rights in the event of a profitable trade sale or secondary buyout which qualifies as a liquidation event
b) Qualifying IPO (often benchmarked against a pre-agreed minimum pre-money valuation of the company)
* Successful IPO is contingent on external factors including market conditions (especially if parties have expectations regarding the pre-money valuation of the company) and regulatory and listing approvals
* As listings and IPOs are heavily regulated, completing them can take between 6 months to 1 year or more, depending on any issues encountered
